# dow-uap-d38-range-fouler-debrief-middle-east-may-2020

Generated by MiMo-V2.5 VLM extraction. Prompt: v3.1-uap-archive. Source PDF: dow-uap-d38-range-fouler-debrief-middle-east-may-2020.pdf.


---

## Page 1

## Range Fouler Debrief Form

Declassified by MG Richard A. Harrison
USCENTCOM Chief of Staff
Please do not use the purple "submit" button above. Save and
email the complete file manually
(see below).

Please complete this form to the best of your ability. If you do not have the requested information,
please leave the field blank. If there was more than one "group," please report each on a separate
form for data collection purposes. You should receive a response within 5 business days.

| Last Name, First Name | Rank | Squadron | SIPR Email Address | Crew Position |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| | | [REDACTED] | | |

This information is for contact only. SPEAR sanitizes all reports of identifying information.
**Absolutely no identifying information for aircrew or squadron will be recorded for analysis.**

| Date (mm/dd/yy) | Time of detection (hh:mm:ss Z) | Day / Night | Side No. | Buno | Mission Description (CAS, BFM, etc) | LFE? |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 05/14/20 | 20:40:00 | Night | | | ISR | |

| Contact Working Area (Ex: W-72 1A) | Contact Latitude (DD:MM:SS) | N/S | Contact Longitude (DD:MM:SS) | E/W | Contact Altitude (Ex: 22000) | Altitude Constant? | Wind Dir at Contact Alt (From) | Wind Speed |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| 28314 | 28314 | N | 49524 | E | 20000 | Yes | | |

*Please attempt to determine a Lat / Long for the contact at initial detection. We recommend using JMPS to reference the sensor-derived bearing and range relative to the bullseye you had in use. If that method is not available, any reasonable derivation of location will work, but please be as specific as possible and make a note in the comments section. These locations may be used to cue other means of tracking.*

| Was the contact moving? | Direction/Speed (Ex. 090/15) |
| :--- | :--- |
| Yes | |

| Radar Equipped: | AIM-9x Self-Track: | [ ] |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Stable Trackfile?: | ATFLIR Autotrack: | [ ] |
| # of Contacts in "Group": | Tally Achieved: | [ ] |
| Intermittent | | |

### Please check all that apply:

| | | | |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Round: [✓] | Moving Parts: [ ] |
| Square: [ ] | Metallic: [ ] |
| Balloon-shaped: [ ] | Markings: [ ] |
| Wings/Airframe: [ ] | Translucent: [ ] |
| Other Shape: [ ] | Opaque: [ ] |
| Apparent Propulsion: [ ] | Reflective: [ ] |

### EA Indications (Check all that apply):

| | | | |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| ECM Arc: [ ] | Letter Identifier: [ ] | False Trackfiles: [ ] | Other/ Ambiguous: [ ] |

*Please use the field below to describe the contact and any interaction in your own words with as much detail as possible. Please be sure to include any detail not included in questions above.*

> While preforming an ISR tasking (ULTN/Black Hot/Lin), a solid white object flew through the FOV. There was a temporarily lose of the object but re-acquired shortly there after. The crew was able to follow the object as it appeared to make erratic moments above the water. During the follow, crew was able to obtain 4x zoom on the object but lost the object due to poor track placement. While following, the sensor operator was continuously manipulating the sensor to maintain eyes on the object. This is apparent by the waves of the water in the background being visible and not being visible.

*Don't use the purple "submit" button! Save this form with filename "Date_Squadron_RF.pdf" and email it to [REDACTED] (Also in the global). For troubleshooting, call [REDACTED]*

*Thank you for your time. Please ensure all display tapes are ripped for the entire time of interaction and saved as a .wmv (Example: 4 May VFA-106 HUD.wmv). Squadron intel personnel shall upload those files to the repository located at this link.*

[REDACTED]

USCENTCOM MDR 26-0019

[REDACTED]

Approved for Release to AARO
01/26/26 001
