## MEMORANDUM FOR MR. LADD

Chamberlin and General Todd that the Army is conducting no experimentations with anything which could possibly be mistaken for a flying disc.

> Colonel Garrett of the Air Forces Intelligence subsequently contacted Mr. Reynolds and indicated that he had discussed this matter with General Schulgen of the Army Air Forces. General Schulgen had previously assured both Mr. Reynolds and Colonel Garrett that to the best of his knowledge and information no experiments were being undertaken by the Government which could be mistaken for flying discs. Colonel Garrett indicated to Mr. Reynolds that he had pointed out his beliefs to General Schulgen and had mentioned the possibility of an embarrassing situation arising between the Air Forces Intelligence and the FBI. General Schulgen agreed with Colonel Garrett that a memorandum would be prepared for the signature of General McDonald, A2, to General LeMay, who is in charge of Research and Development in the Air Corps. Colonel Garrett indicated that this memorandum will set forth the characteristics of the objects seen by various reliable individuals. The memorandum will then request General LeMay to indicate whether or not any experiments are being undertaken by the Air Forces which could possibly be connected with any of the observed phenomena. Colonel Garrett stated that when a reply is received from General LeMay, a communication will be addressed to the Bureau.
>
> Mr. Reynolds will follow this matter closely with Colonel Garrett and General Schulgen so that the Bureau will be promptly advised of all information regarding the flying discs, especially any information indicating that they are, in fact, an experiment of some Governmental agency.

- 2 -