L. A. 105-445

Mr. N. SMITH, SMITH MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 105 Pasadena Avenue, South Pasadena, California, who was with NOACK at the time the object was discovered, advised Special Agent EDWARD OLSEN on December 28, 1948, that he was present at the time the object was located on his, SMITH's, landing field near Helendale, California. SMITH advised that they had taken some pieces off the object and that subsequently, upon returning to Los Angeles, he had learned that the object was actually a model kite or tow target which had been built by the OHLSON AND RICE MANUFACTURING COMPANY of Los Angeles, Calif.
*[handwritten in margin]:* Calif.
Mr. SMITH stated that he had talked to both OHLSON and RICE and that they had admitted to him having experimented with the object over his, SMITH's, airfield. Mr. SMITH made available three of the parts of the target which he had secured while at the airfield.

The information furnished by Mr. SMITH was verified by Special Agent EDWARD OLSEN in an interview with Mr. HENRY T. RICE, OHLSON AND RICE MANUFACTURING COMPANY, 3340 Emery Street, Los Angeles. The parts made available by Mr. SMITH were exhibited to Mr. RICE, and he advised that the model tow target or kite had been taken to the airfield for flight tests by himself and CLAUDE LEROY WOLFORD, 5454 Chesley Avenue, Los Angeles 43, California. Mr. RICE stated that WOLFORD is the inventor of the object and OHLSON AND RICE had originally agreed to finance him to develop the tow target or kite as a toy. Mr. RICE explained that they were primarily interested in developing the contraption as a toy kite to be sold in a much smaller model; however, the inventor, against their wishes, had developed a much larger model which he had hoped to sell as a tow target to be used behind airplanes. Mr. RICE stated that since he had gone that far they felt that they should give the project a test and thereupon they took it out to the desert as a precautionary measure. Mr. RICE stated that the flight test was a failure; the model crashed soon after it was airborne and was thereafter abandoned on the field.

In the absence of her husband, Mrs. CLAUDE LEROY WOLFORD, 5454 Chesley Avenue, was interviewed and exhibited the three parts of the kite made available by Mr. SMITH. She readily identified the three items as part of a kite her husband had built for the RICE MANUFACTURING COMPANY. She advised that she also accompanied her husband to the desert at the time the tests were made. She explained that the kite had crashed and that the manufacturing company did not want to put any more cash in it so it was abandoned on the desert.

The three parts of the kite were returned to NATHAN SMITH on January 7, 1949. The Sub-District Office, I. G. (USAF), 1206 Santee Street, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles, California, was apprised of the information contained herein immediately upon its receipt.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO THE OFFICE OF ORIGIN

2.