## Incident: 174

At the time of the sighting observer was standing on a little ridge facing south in the midst of a clearing some twenty feet wide. It was too dark for hunting in the woods but was sufficiently light for him to see the time by his watch. At 0540 hours Williams was looking to the south and saw an object which resembled an ice cream cone traveling east with the larger end in front. The front end appeared white hot (like the mantels in a gasoline lantern) toward the rear it got gradually darker red. There was no visible metal or other material and no projections of any kind, only fire. The object made absolutely no noise and left no trail of any kind. It was traveling in a straight line from west to east and did not gain or lose altitude. There was no visible means of propulsion. It appeared to be about 3/4 miles away and at an elevation of approximately 2500 feet. Mr Williams stated he was looking up at an angle of about 30° relative to the ground and observed the object for approximately 10 seconds before it was obscured by some trees. It appeared to be about the size of the average airliner and was traveling approximately 300 M H. The larger end of the cone appeared thicker than the average airliner is through the fuselage but it was about the same length. The object displayed no lights other than it appeared encased in flame. It did not light up the area. There was no visible means of support and no control surfaces. There were no clouds and the wind was fairly calm.

Williams stated that he was a student pilot but could not get a pilot's license because of poor muscular coordination in his eyes. His color perception was normal and his hearing is excellent.

Investigative personnel stated that Mr Williams seemed a reliable level headed person. He appeared conscientious and desired no publicity stating that he did not desire his friends and business acquaintances to josh him concerning the matter.