## Incident: 183

A cable from FEAF reported that an unidentified aircraft was sighted both visually and by radar by the pilot and radar observer of an F-61 on 15 Oct 48. The observers think it possible that 2 unidentified aircraft were involved in the interception. The sightings occurred at night; however, there was sufficient moonlight to permit a silhouette to be discerned although no details were observed. It was impossible to estimate the size of the aircraft or whether it was jet or propeller driven. No trails or exhaust flames were seen. The speed of this aircraft was reported as much greater than that of the F-61. It also had a high rate of acceleration and could go almost straight up or down out of radar elevation limits. The object seemed cognizant of the whereabouts of the F-61 at all times which might indicate that it carried radar equipment.

The F-61 interceptor aircraft was visible to ground radar only periodically as it flew in and out of the permanent ground return area in which search was being conducted. The only object picked up by the ground radar was the F-61. Distance between interceptor (F-61) and object in each sighting is as follows:

First picked up at 11 miles and lost at 15,000 feet. ....
Third picked up at 3 miles and lost at 10 miles.
Four, five and six: all picked up at 9 miles and lost at 1200 ft.
The last three sightings took place during a 10 minute period. In each instance the F-61 detected the object approximately 9 miles ahead, slowly closed to within 12,000 feet when the object would suddenly accelerate speed, dive and disappear from the airborne radarscope. Interceptor attempted to effect a normal pickup by diving after object but in each case was unsuccessful. After six sightings had been lost, the object was not again detected although interceptor continued to search the area until approximately 0130.