Incident 175

While watching a government plane come in for a landing at Los Alamos at 0940 hours 23 Sept 1948, witness noticed something glint in the sun. Focusing his attention on the object he perceived that it was perfectly white, neither transparent or translucent and that it had no metallic sheen. It was perfectly circular, the side visible to him being flat - much as a coin would appear when observed from a distance. It appeared no larger than a dime. Lining it up in relation to the tip of the radio tower he backed off to the north. The object appeared clear out of the picture in relation to the tower. Using this perspective he judged the altitude to be approximately 30,000 ft. At this altitude the object would necessarily be some 100 to 150 feet in size in order to be visible at all. There were no projections, air-trails, or exhaust of any kind. He called the object to the attention of Mr Fairchild, his companion. Both men then went into a building transacted their business and at the end of eight minutes they went outside and perceived the object in approximately the same position. From the time Angier first saw the object to his last observation was approximately 15 to 20 minutes.

AGENTS NOTES: Mr Angier is approximately 50 years of age, well settled and conducts his own business. He is an experienced pilot, comes from a middle-class family, is a little above average in intelligence and is a good conversationalist. He told a straight-forward story and did not contradict himself. He appeared honest in his convictions in his belief that he saw an unconventional aircraft. He was convinced that the object was not a weather balloon since he is familiar with weather balloons.