## Incident 212

While Mr. George H. Hoffman and Roy E. Statzer were approaching the city limits of Dayton, Ohio, via Siebenthaler Ave., near Stillwater Bridge, the evening of 3 Dec 48 (Approximately 1713 hours), Mr. Hoffman observed an unusual pulse of light like that of a rocket. The light appeared in the Northwest section of the sky. He estimated this pulse to be visible for about 1/2 second. After observing it for this period it flashed off. The same period of time elapsed and it reappeared seemingly in an ascendent position (could have been traveling in an easterly direction). It again remained visible for about 1/2 second when it again flashed off. It was not seen again. Mr. Hoffman thought that Mr Statzer saw one of the pulses of light. The light appeared irregular in contour and seemed about an inch in length from the observer's viewpoint. Mr. Hoffman estimated it to be some 10 miles distant and stated that it was some 15° above the horizon. He thought the altitude could have been anywhere from 10,000 to 20,000 feet. The color appeared white with a yellowish tinge and was solid. There was no evidence of exhaust. The light remained constant during the 1/2 seconds observed. The part of the sky in which the light was observed appeared clear. There was no cloud interference. However, there was a layer of clouds along the horizon. There was some wind. No planes appeared to be in the air at the time.

Observer states that he is mildly color-blind. Estimates his judgment of speed of moving objects as not too accurate. He believes he can distinguish size and shape at a distance fairly well. Observer is cleared for "Secret"