## Incident: 217

On 9 December while on flight from Washington, D. C. to Patterson Field, shortly after leaving Pittsburgh range some 8 to 12 miles southeast of Pittsburgh Capt Mulling asked Col Brown if he were interested in seeing a flying disc! Col Brown removed his flight goggles, took a quick look and said "Looks like a balloon to me" Capt Mulling didn't agree since the object evinced a very definite movement and was proceeding in a southwest direction at a pretty fair rate of speed. Col Brown then decided to watch the object again. The object appeared perfectly round and of a chalky white color but did not appear shiny. It was whiter than the clouds and was seen against a background of strips of blue sky alternating with strips of thin broken stratus. It was much whiter than the clouds. It appeared to be traveling fairly rapidly through or above the clouds disappearing behind them and then reappearing but always pursuing a straight course. When first sighted it appeared at 60° above horizon and seemed from the observer's viewpoint to be about the size of a quarter - thought to be about 4 to 5 miles in front of the C-45. A horizontal shimmer or jittery motion was noticeable at all times. The C-45 was pursuing a course of 300° and then changed to 270° with the object almost parallel on a course of 230°. The C-45 was cruising at 180 MPH at 6,000 feet. The object appeared to be 12 to 16,000 feet and was above clouds. Object last seen at about 10° above the horizon and was about the size of a beebee shot.