## Inci. No.: 176

While watching an Army bomber which was flying rather low, Col Eakins observed above and going nearly due east an unknown object. He asked his companion, Mr Bentham, if he were seeing things. Bentham substantiated the fact that there was an object above the bomber. Col Eakins described the object as being approximately the size of a large four-engined bomber. It appeared undulating in shape resembling an amoeba (See sketch inclosed). The object appeared to have 3 appendages forward and 2 aft which seemed to be flapping or oscillating while the center portion remained stable. Col Eakins thought it was a mile or more above the bomber. In the center of the object there appeared a round, dark circle which, in Col Eakins' opinion, seemed to be above the main body of the object. Further it appeared that the main part of the object was translucent and of a dirty gray color and that the dark, circular portion appeared to grow more dense in color as it approached the center. From this observation Col Eakins concluded that the dark portion was spherical having the shape and depth of a globe. He further stated that the main part of the object appeared like canvas. He could not estimate the speed of the object but said it was traveling at a far greater speed than the bomber or anything else he had ever seen. There was no noise of any type and no evidence of exhaust or trail. The object did not reflect or give off light of any type.

Col Eakins prior to his retirement in 1948 was on duty in Panama as a veterinarian with the Army mission. He retired because of personal reasons and not because of physical defects. However, Col Eakins is far-sighted and has to wear glasses. Neighbors and business associates established the fact that he is highly thought of and is reliable in all his dealings and associations with them. He impressed the investigator as being stable, intelligent and above average in common sense.