Incident: 186

While Mr Nash was hunting for deer on the morning of the 16 Oct 48 he heard a throbbing noise or steady purr. Upon looking up he saw an object resembling a flattened football some 500 feet directly overhead. The object was silver and black, a silver stripe down the center (from front to rear) and on both sides of this center the object was black. It appeared about 9 inches long, 6 inches wide and 3 inches thick and was traveling in a straight line in a northerly direction a little to the west toward Salt Lake City, Utah, at an estimated rate of 300 mph. There was no visible sign of exhaust but from the rear an opening could be seen in the center. Mr Nash thought he saw a movement like a "paddlewheel". The object sounded as it it were jet propelled and seemed to be driven from the rear. Mr Nash stated the sound wasn't like that of an aircraft engine nor any type gasoline engine, although there was a definite throb or "put", "put", "put". He said if it were a gasoline engine, it was muffled. It made a sound of steady clicking, like a "shirt tail flapping in the wind." He thought the clicking might have been a camera. The object was in sight approximately 4 seconds or longer.

NOTE: Character investigation of Mr Fred Nash seems to indicate reliability. He is a Used car dealer and an airplane mechanic and is in business for himself. Nash is a member in good standing of the Latter Day Saints Church (Norman) having done foreign missionary work in Hawaii.

While Mr Nash claims to have excellent eyesight, his estimation of distances was found to be faulty - Agent asked Nash how high he thought a certain tree was - Nash stated that it was "over one hundred feet high." Agent estimated the tree to be about 40 feet high as compared to a power pole which towered above it.