UNC LASSIFIED

process, alleging irregularities. On September 10, Sonora Governor and MORENA National Council President Alfonso Durazo formally certified the results of the party's selection process; while Durazo indicated he would continue to examine Ebrard's complaints, he also indicated he did not assess that the end results would change in light of Ebrard's allegations. Ebrard said he expected the MORENA Honesty and Justice Committee (responsible for solving intra-party conflicts) to hear his challenge, but also added he would "not be interested in remaining in MORENA" if the party rejected his allegations. He announced he would travel across the country starting September 18 to meet with supporters and formalize the creation of a new national political movement. Some outlets reported Ebrard created a new political party, but electoral laws would not allow this until 2026.

### 3. (SBU) Comment: Having moved on from its contender selection process, MORENA is unlikely to validate any of Ebrard's challenges and therefore his options seem limited: he could join Citizen's Movement (MC) as its presidential candidate (despite some strong opposition within MC, especially from the party's Jalisco wing), remain with and create a new "Ebrardista current" within MORENA, or join the opposition Broad Front alliance. He cannot form a new party in time for the June 2024 elections, and the last day to register as an independent candidate (September 8) came and went without his taking action. His latest statements and attacks on MORENA's leadership however, increasingly make it impossible for him to remain in the party: the party has certified Sheinbaum as its candidate, Sheinbaum has embarked on a nationwide tour, and there is no sign whatsoever that there will be a do-over of the poll, as Ebrard desires. Ebrard retains the support of dozens of MORENA and allied party legislators, but even they seem reluctant to leave the party, which limits his leverage. End comment.

### **(SBU) INE Names Commission Members Ahead of 2024 Election**

4. (SBU) The INE council approved the designation of presidents and members of key INE commissions September 9 who will oversee the 2024 elections. After a contentious session where some councilors seemed at odds on the designations (pro-MORENA councilors opposing anti-MORENA councilors, according to analysts), INE agreed on the makeup of the commissions that will be in place until September 2024. Analysts considered the designations a defeat for MORENA because, although its bloc obtained the presidency of key commissions (for

*Image: A rectangular stamp with a double border containing the text "Released in Full".*

UNC LASSIFIED
Page 2 of 7