stated in effect, "We are calling all key and responsible people on this matter", after the caller had established that he was speaking with Mr. Stringfield, which call was placed to Mr. Stringfield's place of employment, mentioned above, telephone GA 1-5100. The caller would not identify himself, and in the phone call alerted Mr. Stringfield to expect, "the biggest flurry of unidentified flying objects sightings as a result of Russian nuclear explosions in the one hundred megaton range". Mr. Stringfield advised that the caller said to be prepared when confusion begins resulting from these sightings. The caller related that these sightings would be seen between certain dates, and that to the best of Mr. Stringfield's recollection, the caller stated, "Mark these dates, October 15 to October 19, during which will be the greatest incident in UFO (Unidentified Flying Objects) activity over the years". According to Mr. Stringfield, the caller remarked further, "I'll remain in touch with you, and will call back after the nineteenth".

Mr. Stringfield advised that the caller refused to identify himself, and according to Mr. Stringfield seemed to speak intelligently in the message he had to relate to Mr. Stringfield.

Mr. Stringfield advised that he was concerned about this telephone call in that if there were any truth in the matter, and if such sightings should occur, that it may cause panic among the populous in this country, and that further, that the caller seemed to speak very seriously, and there was no indication in the caller's voice or message to indicate that it was a joke or a prank.

Mr. Stringfield advised that it is not unusual that he receives telephone calls concerning unidentified objects, inasmuch as he, Stringfield, is authorized to report sightings of unidentified objects to the headquarters, Air Defense Command, at Columbus, Ohio. He stated further that it is not unusual that he might receive such a call inasmuch as he is publicly known as a person who is interested in matters relating to unidentified flying objects.

Mr. Stringfield advised that he is an advisor to the National Investigations Committee on aerial phenomena , which committee is located on Connecticut

-2-