# 18_6369445_general_1948_vol_1

Generated by MiMo-V2.5 VLM extraction. Prompt: v3.1-uap-archive. Source PDF: 18_6369445_general_1948_vol_1.pdf.


---

## Page 1

## DECLASSIFIED
Authority: NND 760191

## CONFIDENTIAL

> AFOIR-CO/Lt Col Garrett/lwd/4544
> 14 June 48

Basic Ltr fm Hq. Eleventh Air Force, Harrisburg, Pa., dtd (undated), subj: Report of "Flying Discs"

AFOIR-CO-5 (1-6-29)

1st Ind.

15 JUN 1948

Dept. of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.

TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio

ATTN: MCI

*[handwritten in margin]:* 15 wobm

4 Incls.
n/c

*[handwritten in margin]:* w/det

*[handwritten in margin]:* 000.9 Phenomena

P102375

HQ. USAF
15 JUN 1948
CAG-MAIL BRANCH

## CONFIDENTIAL

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1. AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | *[handwritten]:* Lt Col Garrett | | | | |
| | Lt Col Garrett | | | | |

10—29242-2   U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 2

## CONFIDENTIAL

HEADQUARTERS ELEVENTH AIR FORCE
1612 South Cameron Street
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

EAFD

SUBJECT: Report of "Flying Discs"

TO: Chief of Staff
United States Air Force
Washington 25, D. C.
ATTN: Director of Intelligence,
Requirements Division

1. In compliance with paragraph 1a, ADC Letter 45-5, 25 March 1948, the following information relative to "Flying Discs" is hereby submitted. The attached report was received this Headquarters 27 May 1948, from Special Agent, D.K. Brown, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Cleveland, Ohio. This Headquarters has no further information and is not initiating any investigation in accordance with paragraph 2, ADC Ltr. 45-5. Any additional information received by this Headquarters will be immediately forwarded to your Headquarters. Copies of report have been forwarded to Hq. Air Materiel Command and Hq. Air Defense Command as directed in above mentioned directive.

   a. Location and time of sighting - Hobson, Ohio; night of 8 May 48.

   b. Weather at the time - unknown by this Hq.

   c. Names, occupations, and addresses of witnesses - Addresses unknown.
      Ben Rupe, New York Central System Car Inspector
      Earl Roush, " " " " "
      Bob White, Yard Clerk, N.Y.C.
      G. K. Hite, Patrolman, N.Y.C.

   d. Photographs of objects, if available - unknown this Hq.

   e. Sketches of objects configuration - unknown this Hq.

   f. Objects sighted:
      (1) Number - not known this Headquarters
      (2) Shape - round
      (3) Size - appeared to be nine inches in diameter from ground level.

## CONFIDENTIAL


---

## Page 3

## CONFIDENTIAL

### EAFD
Subj: Report of "Flying Discs"

(4) Color - phosphorescent
(5) Speed - Great amount of speed
(6) Heading - 90°
(7) Manueverability - not known
(8) Altitude - 6 to 8 miles
(9) Sound - unknown to this Hq.
(10) Exhaust trail or not - Phosphorescent trail in the sky

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

/s/ H. B. MAX
Lt Col., USAF
AC of S, A-2

4 Incls.
1. FBI Ltr., Cleveland, Ohio, 25 May 48
2. N.Y. Central System Ltr., Columbus, Chio
   &x 15 May 48
3. N.Y. Central System Ltr., Hobson, Chio
4. N.Y. Central System Ltr., 21 May 48
   File 22.00

C
O
P
Y


---

## Page 4

SECRET

6/4/48

*Image: Aged, light-blue or greenish government form paper with three hole-punch marks on the left margin. Top center stamped "SECRET" in large, red ink with a horizontal line struck through the middle of the word.*

*Handwritten in upper right corner:* 6/4/48

*Handwritten in upper left corner:* 5425

*Handwritten note in center of page:*
Dispatched thru TS Control Office
by Special Officer Courier  X-010
4 June 48

*Handwritten in right margin, oriented vertically:* 009 Document 1

AFOIR
Lt Col Earle/mcb/6548
/t/ 4 June 48

AFOIR                     1st Ind.

Dept. of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.     4 - JUN 1948

TO:  Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio

T-2 Report "German Flying Wings Designed by Horten Brothers" has been retained by this office.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

*[signed: WILTON H. EARLE, Jr]*
WILTON H. EARLE, Jr.
Lt. Colonel, U.S.A.F.
Executive, Air Intel. Reg. Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*Handwritten annotation near the signature block:* 
*[handwritten in margin]:* E.E. Earle
*[handwritten note]:* 2 Incls.
1 & 2 n/c
3 w/d

*Bottom of page stamped:* SECRET
*Bottom right corner printed:* 16-20242-2 U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 5

## SECRET

AIR MATERIEL COMMAND

TSNAD-2B
Wright Field, Dayton, O.
24 September 1947

**TSNAD-2B/ACL:aaa**

"Flying Disc"

Commanding General
Army Air Forces
Washington 25, D. C.

ATTN: AC/AS-2
Major General George McDonald

1. In compliance with General McDonald's telephone conversation, this date, to Colonel H. M. McCoy, T-2, Hq. AMC, attached herewith is a copy of a drawing entitled, "Loedding Flying Disc", designated LD-2. Because of patent rights involved, it is requested that a record be kept of all persons reviewing this drawing by witnessing with signatures and dates directly on the drawing.

2. This drawing should be returned to this office when it has served its purpose so that it can be turned over to the Patent Office Hq. AMC for official record.

3. Inclosed herewith is also a report prepared by the Royal Aircraft Establishment, Technical Note, AERO 1703, which describes the Horten tailless aircraft. The following references are invited which is considered significant in relating the Horten brothers perspective thinking and accomplishments toward the alleged "Flying Saucer" case:

   a. Page 5, Paragraph 4 and 6.
   b. Page 6, Paragraph 1 and 7.
   c. Page 26, Paragraph 3 and 10.
   d. Page 27, Paragraph 12.
   e. Page 28, Paragraphs 1 through 5.
   f. Page 54, Photograph of Horten "Parabola".

## SECRET

*Image: A typewritten document on aged paper, slightly yellowed. Punch holes are visible on the left margin. Handwritten numbers "U-39942" and possibly "Z-446" appear in the bottom right corner.*


---

## Page 6

## SECRET

Basic ltr, dtd 24 Sep 47, to CG, Hq AAF, Wash, subj: "Flying Disc"

g. Page 69, The Horten VIII.
h. Pages 71 and 72, Photographs of the Horten IX Versions.
i. Page 74, Drawing of the "Parabola".

This document should also be returned when it has served its intended purpose.

4. A recent report from the U. S. Military attache, Moscow, USSR, dated 9 June 1947, indicates that 1800 aircraft, directly or indirectly based on the Horten VIII design (six engine pusher, having a wing spread of 131 feet and a gross weight of approximately thirty-three thousand pounds) are being built for bomber squadron use. The Russian version, however, is jet propelled, reference report whose identification No. is V-32291-8.

5. The T-2 report "German Flying Wings Designed by Horten Brothers", No. F-SU-1110-ND, also inclosed herewith, may be retained by your office if desired.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

*[signed: sgd]*
H. M. McCOY
Colonel, Air Corps
Deputy Commanding General
Intelligence (T-2)

3 Inclos:
1. Drawing
2. RAE Tech Note, AERO 1703
3. T-2 Rpt, No. F-SU-1110-ND

## SECRET

*U. 39942*


---

## Page 7

## SECRET

AF HQ-44
3 Dec 1947

AFOIR-CU/Lt Col Garrett/lwd/6282
12 May 48

AFOIR-CO-5

**13 MAY 1948**

### SUBJECT: Flying Discs

### TO:
Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force, Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: MCI

Forwarded for your information.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

**1 Incl.**
ID No. 456982
(4 copies)

GEORGE D. GARRETT, JR.
Lieutenant Colonel, USAF
Acting Chief, Collection Branch
Air Intelligence Requirements Division
Directorate of Intelligence

**HQ. USAF**
**13 MAY 1948**
**OAG-MAIL BRANCH**

*[handwritten in margin]:* dcc

P101459

*[handwritten vertical note on right margin]:* 500.9 Reynolds

## SECRET

| OFFICE SYMBOL | ¹AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | Col Taylor | | | | |
| | *[handwritten signature/initials]* Lt Col Garrett | | | | |

*[handwritten at bottom left]:* JWCB

16-39343-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 8

AFCAG-10 (Rev. 13 Oct 47)

### INDEX: 000.75 Clippings
**DATE:** 28 Apr 48

**TO:** CG, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton, Ohio

**FROM:** Air Intelligence Requirements Division, Directorate of Intelligence

**SUMMARY:** Clippings Service for Project "SIGN"

ltr

**FILED:** 380 Project
**INDEXER:** C
**REMARKS:**

***

# HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
# CORRESPONDENCE REFERENCE FORM

*8 - 3867, AF*

*[handwritten in bottom left corner]:* MMFH


---

## Page 9

AF HQ-44
3 Dec 1947

AFOIR-CO/Lt. Col. Garrett/jh/4544
26 Apr 48

**CONFIDENTIAL**

Basic ltr, subj: Report of Information on "Flying Disc" dated 12 Apr 48
1st Ind G/fhc/R

HEADQUARTERS, THE AIR UNIVERSITY, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama

TO: Chief of Staff, USAF, Washington 25, D. C., Attn: Dir of Intelligence 14 Apr

Forwarded in accordance with paragraph 4 of letter cited in basic communication.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

/S/ F. E. LANKSTON
MAJOR, AGD
ASS'T. ADJ. GEN.

1 Incl:
n/c (1 cy w/d)

*[handwritten in margin]:* 412148

AFOIR-CO-5 2nd Ind.
Department of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.

TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: MCI

1 Incl
n/c

*[handwritten annotation]:* /S/ R.T.

*[Stamped ink mark]:* HQ USAF
27 APR 1948
OAG-MAIL BRANCH

*[handwritten note]:* acc

Reference: Ltr frm Hq Tyndall AFB, dated 12 Apr 48, subject as above.
1st Ind frm Hq Maxwell Air FB, to C/S, USAF, dated 14 Apr 48.

*[handwritten note in margin]:* D009 *[illegible]*

P100938

**CONFIDENTIAL**

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1. AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | Col. Taylor *[handwritten initials]* | *[handwritten: C]* 2 | | | |
| | Lt. Col. Garrett | | | | |

*[handwritten annotation over "Col. Taylor"]:* *[signed: illegible]*

16—29242-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 10

## CONFIDENTIAL

C O P Y

HEADQUARTERS
500th AIR UNIVERSITY WING
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
PANAMA CITY, FLORIDA

(H-4) MEJ/al/R
12 April 1948

**SUBJECT:** Report of Information on "Flying Disc"

**THRU :** Commanding General
          Air University
          Maxwell Air Force Base
          Montgomery, Alabama
          ATTN: AC of S, A-2

**TO :** Commanding General
        United States Air Force
        Washington 25, D. C.
        ATTN: Director of Intelligence

The attached information is forwarded in compliance with USAF Letter, subj: "Reporting of Information on "Flying Discs", dtd 6 February 1948.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

1 Incl -
MOIC and Exhibit I. (in dup)

/s/ J. B. PRICE
Major, USAF
Adjutant

**Distribution:**
1 cy ea:
C/S USAF
CG, AMC
CG, AU

## CONFIDENTIAL


---

## Page 11

AFOIR-CO/Lt. Col. Garrett/jh/4544
2 Apr 48

AF Form 44
3 Dec 1947

**"RESTRICTED"**

AFOIR-CO-5

SUBJECT: Flying Discs

TO : Commanding General
    Air Materiel Command
    Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
    Dayton, Ohio
    ATTN: MCI

5 APR 1948

Forwarded for your information.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

1 Incl
Ltr frm CSGID, 25 Mar
(dup)

ROBERT TAYLOR 3rd
Colonel, USAF
Chief, Collection Branch
Air Intelligence Requirements Division
Directorate of Intelligence

*[handwritten in margin]:* 000.9 Flying discs

*[stamped text]:* HQ USAP
5 APR 1948
CASE — BRANCH

Reference: DF frm Hq USAF, Comment No. 1 to CSGID dtd 27 Feb 48.
         DF frm CSGID, Comment No. 2, to Hq USAF, dtd 25 Mar 48.

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1. AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| GRADE AND<br>SURNAME OF<br>COORDINATING<br>OFFICERS | Col. Taylor<br>Lt. Col. Garrett | | | | |

*"RESTRICTED"*

16-29242-2  U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 12

## SECURITY CLASSIFICATION (If any)
RESTRICTED

## DEPT. OF THE AIR FORCE
WAR DEPARTMENT
DISPOSITION FORM

| | |
| :--- | :--- |
| **FILE No.** | **SUBJECT** |
| AFOIR-CO-5 | Reporting of Information on "Flying Discs." |
| **TO** | **FROM** |
| CSGID | HQ. USAF - AFOIR |
| Attn: Plans & Collection Branch | **DATE** |
| Lt. Col. Smith | 27 FEB 1948 |
| | **COMMENT No. 1** |
| | Lt. Col. Garrett/dk/4544 |

1. It is Air Force policy not to ignore reports of sightings and phenomena in the atmosphere, but to recognize that part of its mission is to collect, collate, evaluate, and act on information of this nature.

2. In implementing this policy the Air Materiel Command has been designated the Air Force agency to collect, collate, evaluate, and distribute to interested government agencies and contractors all information concerning sightings and phenomena in the atmosphere which can be construed to be of concern to the national security.

3. All Air Force installations within and outside Zone of Interior and Alaska have been instructed to report all sightings, or information concerning sightings which comes to their attention, direct to the Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, Attn: MCI.

4. Air Materiel Command has been authorized direct contact with all Air Force installations whenever required to develop additional information on the flying discs.

5. It is requested that all Department of the Army installations also be instructed to report such occurrences directly to Air Materiel Command and that they be informed that Air Materiel Command is authorized to contact them direct when necessary in connection with such occurrences.

6. If possible, reports to Air Materiel Command should include the following information:
    a. Location and time of sighting
    b. Weather at the time
    c. Names, occupations, and addresses of witnesses
    d. Photographs of objects, if available
    e. Object sighted:
        (1) Number
        (2) Shape
        (3) Size
        (4) Color
        (5) Speed
        (6) Heading
        (7) Maneuverability
        (8) Altitude
        (9) Sound
        (10) Exhaust trail or not
    g. General remarks

FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF:
*[signed: C.P. Cabell]*
**C. P. CABELL**
Major General, U.S.A.F.
Chief, Air Intel. Req. Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*[handwritten in margin]:* Rec'd 1 March 48

WD AGO FORM 897 (1 MAY 1946)
RESTRICTED
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1948 O - 723555


---

## Page 13

## RESTRICTED

AFOIR-CO-5
000.9
Lt. Col. Garrett/dk/4544
25 Feb 48

AFOIR-CO-5
GSGID
Attn: Plans & Collection
Branch
Lt. Col. Smith

Reporting of Information on "Flying Discs."
HQ. USAF - AFOIR

27 FEB 1948
Lt. Col. Garrett/dk/4544

1.  It is Air Force policy not to ignore reports of sightings and phenomena in the atmosphere, but to recognize that part of its mission is to collect, collate, evaluate, and act on information of this nature.

2.  In Implementing this policy the Air Materiel Command has been designated the Air Force agency to collect, collate, evaluate, and distribute to interested government agencies and contractors all information concerning sightings and phenomena in the atmosphere which can be construed to be of concern to the national security.

3.  All Air Force installations within and outside Zone of Interior and Alaska have been instructed to report all sightings, or information concerning sightings which comes to their attention, direct to the Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio, Attn: MCI.

4.  Air Materiel Command has been authorized direct contact with all Air Force installations whenever required to develop additional information on the flying discs.

5.  It is requested that all Department of the Army installations also be instructed to report such occurrences directly to Air Materiel Command and that they be informed that Air Materiel Command is authorized to contact them direct when necessary in connection with such occurrences.

6.  If possible, reports to Air Materiel Command should include the following information:

    a.  Location and time of sighting
    b.  Weather at the time
    c.  Names, occupations, and addresses of witnesses
    d.  Photographs of objects, if available
    e.  Object sighted:
        (1) Number      (4) Color      (7) Maneuverability      (10) Exhaust trail or not
        (2) Shape       (5) Speed      (8) Altitude
        (3) Size        (6) Heading    (9) Sound
    f.  General remarks

FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

*[signed: C. P. Cabell]*
Major General, U.S.A.F.
Chief, Air Intel. Req. Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*Image: blue stamp:*
HQ. USAF
27 FEB 1948
CAG-MAIL BRANCH

## OFFICE SYMBOL

| 1. | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| AFOIR-CO | AFOIR | | | |

## GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS

*[handwritten annotation over typed text:]* Col. Taylor III
*[handwritten annotation over typed text:]* O. P. CABELL / C. Maj. Henn
*[handwritten annotation over typed text:]* Lt. Col. Garrett / Go. Maj. Hen / USAF

## RESTRICTED

16-20242-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 14

## SECRET

CSGID 350.05

SUBJECT: Reporting of Information on "Flying Discs"

TO: HQ, USAF, AFOIR
FROM: D/I, GSUSA
DATE: 25 Mar 48

COMMENT NO. 2
Lt. Col. Smith/2931/jes

1. Action on Comment No. 1 has been completed by request for information at Inclosure 1.

2. It is requested that Air Materiel Command be directed to transmit to the Director of Intelligence, GSUSA, an information copy of each communication received from or sent to commands subordinate to the Department of the Army in connection with so-called "flying disc" reports.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE:

*[Signature: A. D. MacLean]*
R. F. ENNIS *[crossed out]*
A. D. MacLEAN
Colonel, GSC
Chief, Intelligence Group, ID

2 Incls:
1. Req for Info (10 copies)
2. ICM 7 (2 copies)

*Handwritten note in upper right corner:* air

## SECRET
*Handwritten note in bottom right corner:* PRM 46478 *[check mark]*


---

## Page 15

## CONFIDENTIAL

**AFOIR-CO/Lt. Col. Garrett/jh/4544**
**2 Apr 48**

Ltr frm Hq 4th AF, dated 11 Mar 48, subject: "Investigation of Flying Disc"

**AFOIR-CO-5**                         **1st Ind.**

Department of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.

**TO:** Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio

*[handwritten note]:* 333.5 Med

*[Stamp: 2 APR 1948]*

*[Stamp: HQ. USAF]*

*[Stamp: 2 - APR 1948]*

*[Stamp: CA... BRANCH]*

**P100289**

*[handwritten text along right margin, vertically oriented]:* 9 November 2000

*[handwritten initials]:* JF

### OFFICE SYMBOL / COORDINATING OFFICERS

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1 AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | Col. Taylor | | | | |
| | Lt. Col. Garrett | | | | |

*[Stamp: CONFIDENTIAL]*

16-20242-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 16

## CONFIDENTIAL

C O P Y

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA-3/1208-I
Mar 11, 1948

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc.

TO: Chief of Staff
    United States Air Forces
    Washington, D. C.
    ATTN: Directorate of Intelligence
          Air Intelligence Requirements Division

1. Incident reported on 9 March 1948, this headquarters, per telephone call from Sgt. A. M. Larsen, Sheriff's office, Bakersfield, California.

    a. Observation by Mr. Les Buchner, Bakersfield, California, of two objects falling to earth from unknown source on 5 March 1948 between 1610 and 1655 hours. Description of objects similar to falling aircraft with smoke and debris trailing. Observation made at Bakersfield with objects sighted southwest toward Buena Vista Lake, California.

    b. Observation by Mr. Denio, employee of the Pacific General Electric Company, Bakersfield, California, of two objects which fell to earth from unknown source north of Bakersfield, California, 8 March 1948. One object seemed to be on fire with red and black smoke trailing behind.

2. Informant Larsen stated that searching parties, aircraft and rescue units have made numerous attempts to locate these reported objects without success.

3. Investigation of incident has been initiated by this headquarters. Report will follow.

/s/ DONALD L. SPRINGER
    Lt. Colonel, USAF
    AC of S, A-2

Information to:
ADC, Mitchel Fld, N.Y.
FBI, San Francisco
G-2, Sixth Army
DIO, San Francisco (12th Nav. Dist)

## CONFIDENTIAL


---

## Page 17

SECRET

AFOIR-CO-5/Lt.Col.Garrett/dk/
4544
9 March 48

AFOIR-CO-5
1 7 MAR 1948

SUBJECT: Flying Discs

TO: Commanding General
    Air Materiel Command
    Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
    Dayton, Ohio
    ATTN: MCI

1. Reference is made to Colonel McCoy's informal proposal that certain fighter aircraft be maintained on a continuous alert status, within the Zone of the Interior, to aid in gathering information on Flying Discs.

2. This proposal is considered unfeasible for the following reasons:

   a. The outlay of aircraft and personnel would be too great in relation to the results obtained.

   b. Proper interception is not possible, except by accident, without complete radar coverage. The Air Force is incapable of providing such coverage.

   c. It is doubtful if fighter aircraft would be able to follow up reports emanating, for the most part, from civilian sources.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

GEORGE C. McDONALD
Major General, USAF
Director of Intelligence, Office of Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations

*Image: Green paper document, hole-punched on left margin. Bottom right has a vertical handwritten number "0006748" in blue ink. Bottom left has several blue stamped markings: "HQ UFO", "17 MAR 1948", "ON-MAIL SHANNON", and a handwritten "ACC" or similar. A white label with "P 99846" is affixed near the bottom.*

P 99846

*Image: Handwritten annotations in blue ink at bottom right: "P&O recommended above answer by R&R [redacted] to D/I USAF".*

### Coordinating Officers
| OFFICE SYMBOL | GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS |
| :--- | :--- |
| 1. AFOIR-CO | Col. Taylor III |
| | Lt. Col. Garrett |
| 2. AFOIR | C. P. CABELL<br>Maj. Gen., USAF |
| 3. AFOIN | *[Handwritten signature: McDonnell]* |
| 4. | |
| 5. | |

SECRET

16-29242-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 18

## AF HQ-33 (30 MAY 44)
## HEADQUARTERS ARMY AIR FORCES
## ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

### TALLY NO. 080
### FILE NO.

## SUBJECT: Flying Discs

### TO: Director of Plans and Operations
### DATE: 12 FEB 1948

### FROM: Director of Intelligence
### COMMENT NO. 1
*It. Col Garrett/two/4544*

1.  By letter from this Headquarters, dated 30 December 1947 with subject as above, the Commanding General, Air Materiel Command is instructed to "set up a project whose purpose is to collect, collate, evaluate and distribute to interested government agencies and contractors all information concerning sightings and phenomena in the atmosphere which can be construed to be of concern to the national security".

2.  The Commanding General, Air Materiel Command feels that the responsibility assigned to him for collecting and developing information and intelligence on the "flying discs" should be complemented by a requirement that all Air Force installations in the United States and Alaska provide a minimum of one each fighter or night interceptor type aircraft, with necessary crews, on a continuous alert basis. These aircraft should be equipped with gun camera, and such armament as deemed advisable, in order to secure photographs necessary to the obtainment of all possible data on any reported and sighted unusual phenomena, of the "flying disc" type, in the atmosphere.

3.  It is envisaged that each Air Force installation maintaining aircraft on an alert basis for this purpose would investigate all unusual flying objects reported from any source in any area over which it has cognizance. Such a program would obviously require a detailed Standard Operating Procedure, in the preparation of which Air Materiel Command should cooperate.

4.  Your comments and/or concurrence are requested.

*[signed: C. P. Cabell]*
C. P. CABELL
Brigadier General, U.S.A.F.
Chief, Air Intel. Req. Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*[handwritten in bottom right corner]:* 62
*[handwritten in bottom left corner]:* V 213
3-1109, AF (REV 30 MAY 44)


---

## Page 19

## SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS ARMY AIR FORCES

AF Form -33 ~~(20 MAY 44)~~

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

| TALLY NO. | [Handwritten annotation: *"Air"*] |
| :--- | :--- |
| **FILE NO.** | |

### SUBJECT: 
Flying Discs

| **TO:** | Director of Intelligence | **DATE** | 3 MAR 1948 |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **FROM:** | Director of Plans and Operations | **COMMENT No.** | 2 |

Major Cook:csk 72233

1. The proposal of Air Materiel Command for stationing fighter aircraft at all bases on a continuous alert status is not considered feasible for the following reasons:
   a. The outlay of aircraft and personnel would be too great consistent with the results to be obtained.
   b. Proper interception is not possible, except by accident, without complete radar coverage which the Air Force is not capable of providing.
   c. It is doubtful if fighter aircraft would be able to follow up reports emanating, for the most part, from civilian sources.

2. It is recommended that Air Materiel Command's responsibility for "collecting" information on unusual phenomena in the atmosphere be confined to the establishment of direct channels for the receipt of such information.

3. It is further recommended that in lieu of the proposal of Air Materiel Command, all other major commands be directed to cooperate with Air Materiel Command and to channel information directly to that command.

*[signed: S. E. Anderson]*

S. E. ANDERSON
Major General, U.S.A.F.
Director of Plans and Operations.

## SECRET

PAGE _____

*Image: A typed Department of the Air Force Routing and Record Sheet, dated March 3, 1948, on light blue/green paper. The document contains three numbered paragraphs regarding the feasibility of fighter aircraft interception of "Flying Discs." The word "SECRET" is stamped in red ink at the top and bottom of the page. There are two hole-punch marks on the left margin. A small box in the top right corner contains the handwritten word "Air" under "TALLY NO." The document is signed in blue ink by Major General S. E. Anderson.*

3-1109, AF (REV 20 MAY 44)


---

## Page 20

AFOIR-CO/Lt. Col Garrett/lwd/4544
4 March 48

B/L fm Hq. Tenth Air Force, Brooks Fld, San Antonio, Texas, dtd
7 Jan 48, subj: "Flying Disks"

AFOIR-CO-5
1st Ind.

Dept. of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.
8 MAR 1948

TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base, Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: TSDIN

Forwarded as a matter pertaining to your Command.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

DOUGLASS W. EISEMAN
Lt. Colonel, U.S.A.F.
Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*Image: A greenish-blue paper document, a "First Indorsement" form. The text is typed. In the lower-left, there is a typed "1 Incl. n/c" followed by a handwritten note "*w/cd*". A blue stamp reads "HQ USAAF / 9-MAR 1948 / CAG-MAIL BRANCH". A handwritten number "P 99606" is typed in blue ink. Below that, a typed reference line reads "Ref: B/L fm 10th A.F. dtd 7 Jan 48, subj: as above". On the right margin, a handwritten vertical note reads "Col. [illegible]". At the very bottom is a pre-printed coordination slip table with handwritten initials and names, including "Col Taylor", "Lt. Col Garrett", and "C. P. CARELL". A faint "CONFIDENTIAL" stamp is visible at the top and bottom of the page.*

Ref: B/L fm 10th A.F. dtd 7 Jan 48, subj: as above

### OFFICE SYMBOL & COORDINATION SLIP
| OFFICE SYMBOL | GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS |
| :--- | :--- |
| AFOIR-CO | Col Taylor |
| Lt. Col Garrett | |
| AFOIR | |
| | C. P. CARELL |
| | |

*[handwritten annotation near bottom right]:* [illegible]
*[handwritten annotation near bottom left]:* [illegible]

---
*10-20242-2 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE*


---

## Page 21

## CONFIDENTIAL

### HEADQUARTERS
### TENTH AIR FORCE
### BROOKS FIELD, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

D 333.5

7 January 1948

**SUBJECT:** "Flying Disks"

**TO:**
Chief of Staff
United States Air Force
Washington 25, D. C.
ATTN: Director of Intelligence

Commanding General
Air Defense Command
Mitchel Field, New York
ATTN: Asst Chief of Staff, A-2

Commanding General
Fourth Army
Ft. Sam Houston, Texas
ATTN: Asst Chief of Staff, G-2

Inclosed is Summary of Information prepared by the Tenth Air Force Resident Agent at Houston, Texas covering a report of "Flying Disks" received by the FBI Office at Houston, Texas.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

/s/ RAYMOND D. STEPHENS
Major, USAF
Actg Asst Chief of Staff, A-2

1 Incl
Summary of Inform,
subj: "Flying Disk"
175th AFBG, Ellington Fld,
dtd 19 Dec 47

C O P Y

## CONFIDENTIAL


---

## Page 22

SECRET

AFOIR-CO/Col Garrett/lwd/4544
2 March 48

AFOIR-CO-5

4 MAR 1948

SUBJECT: Flying Discs

TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: TSDIN

Attached report from Military Air Attache, Canada, closes the
incident reported by Johnson and Harrison.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

1 Incl.
MAA Canada Rpt.
dtd 2 Feb 48

*[handwritten note]:* filed

DOUGLASS W. EISEMAN
Lt. Colonel, U.S.A.F.
Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

P 99514

*[handwritten note]:* file

HQ. USAF
5-MAR 1948
OAD-MA......CR

*[handwritten vertical text on right margin]:* 00490

SECRET

### OFFICE SYMBOL / COORDINATION GRID

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1. | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | AFOIR-CO<br>Col Taylor<br>Col Garrett | **AFOIR**<br>Eisman<br>O. P. CABELL<br>May Gen. USAF | | | |

*Image: A green carbon-copy paper document. At the top, a stamped "SECRET" is crossed out with a single line. In the bottom left, a red circular stamp with "Col Taylor" inside. In the bottom center, a blue stamp with "May Gen. USAF" inside. Handwritten notes in pencil and blue ink are scattered across the page. The paper shows signs of age and has three hole-punch marks on the left.*

16-20242-2 U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE


---

## Page 23

### SECRET
*(stamp, struck through)*

AFOIR-CO/Lt. Col. Garrett/jh/4544
16 Feb 48

AFOIR-CO-5

24 FEB 1948

**SUBJECT:** Flying Discs

**TO:** Commanding General
Air Materiel Command
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: TSDIN

1.  Attached, for your information, is copy of Collection Memorandum Number 7, which was forwarded to field collection agencies for action on above subject.

2.  This Directorate has been advised that contact has been made with the Horton Brothers, and the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, of European Command has accordingly been advised by Telecon to use this Memorandum as the basis for interrogation.

3.  The results of this interrogation will be forwarded to your Headquarters as soon as received.

**BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:**

1 Incl
Col Memo #7
dtd 21 Jan 48

C.P. CABELL
Major General, U.S.A.F.
Chief, Air Intel. Req. Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

*Image: handwritten signature "C P Cabell" over the typed name*

P 99247

**HQ. USAF**
**24 FEB 1948**
**GAG-MAIL. BRANCH**
*(blue ink stamp)*

*[handwritten in margin, vertical, right edge]:* P 99247

*[handwritten annotation, pencil, left margin]:* File

| OFFICE SYMBOL | 1. AFOIR-CO | 2. AFOIR | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | Col. Taylor | Lt. Col. Garrett | C. P. CABELL<br>Brig. Gen. | | |

*(handwritten signature "C P Cabell" in box 2)*
*(handwritten initials "CP" in box 2)*
*(stamp "SECRET" in box 2, struck through)*


---

## Page 24

## AFCAG-10 (Rev 13 Oct 47)

### INDEX: 000.9 Phenomena
### DATE: 13 February 1948

### TO:
Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.

### FROM:
Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div., Directorate of Intelligence.

### SUMMARY:
"Project SIGN"
"Flying Discs"

1st Ind

### FILED: 380 Project
### INDEXER: rg
### REMARKS:

---

**HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE**
**CORRESPONDENCE REFERENCE FORM**


---

## Page 25

## AFGMR-60 (REV. OCT 1947)

### INDEX:
000.9 Flying Discs

### DATE:
12 February 1948

### TO:
Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.

### FROM:
Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div. Directorate of Intelligence.

### SUMMARY:
Project "SIGN".

### 1st Ind

### FILED:
380 Project

### INDEXER:
rg

### REMARKS:

---
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
## **CORRESPONDENCE REFERENCE FORM**


---

## Page 26

AFOIR-CO/Col. Garrett/jh/4544
4 Feb 48
*2/6/48*

## CONFIDENTIAL
*[Stamp: Top center, partially obscured/faded, appears to read "CONFIDENTIAL"]*

AFOIR-CO-5                     1st Ind.                         6 - FEB 1948
Dept. of the Air Force, Hq. USAF, Washington 25, D. C.

TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio
ATTN: TSDIN

Forwarded as a matter pertaining to your Command.

BY COMMAND OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF:

P 97897
DOUGLASS W. EISEMAN
Lt. Colonel, U.S.A.F.
Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div.
Directorate of Intelligence

1 Incl
n/c
*[Stamp: Blue ink, "U.S. AIR FORCE"]*
*[Stamp: Blue ink, "REC'D FEB 12 1948"]*
*[Stamp: Blue ink, "AIR-MAIL, SPECIAL"]*

*[Handwritten in margin, vertical right side]:* 00091 Command

### Routing Slip / Action Taken

| OFFICE SYMBOL | ¹AFOIR-CO | 2. | 3. | 4. | 5. |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **GRADE AND SURNAME OF COORDINATING OFFICERS** | Col. Taylor | Col. Garrett | *[Handwritten annotation over column]:* AFOIR Eisenman | *[Handwritten]:* C. P. CABELL | *[Handwritten]:* Brig. Gen., USAF |


---

## Page 27

CONFIDENTIAL

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA-1208-I
JAN 1 5 1948

SUBJECT: Report of Flying Disc.

TO: Chief of Staff
United States Air Forces
Washington, D. C.
ATTN: Director of Intelligence

Attached report for your information.

/S/ Donald L. Springer
DONALD L. SPRINGER
Lt. Colonel, USAF
AC of S, A-2

1 Incl:
Rpt of Flying Disc.

*Image: A faint, blue ink-stamped receipt mark is visible at the bottom of the page, partially obscured. The text appears to read "REC'D" at the top, followed by illegible text, and "27 JAN 1948" in the middle.*

CONFIDENTIAL


---

## Page 28

AFCAG-10 (Rev 13 Oct 47)

## INDEX: 000.9 Phenomena

## DATE: 6 February 1948

### TO: Commanding General, Air Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Dayton, Ohio.

### FROM: Executive, Air Intelligence Requirements Div., Directorate of Intelligence.

### SUMMARY: Flying Discs.

*Image: A hole punch mark is visible on the left edge of the page, adjacent to the text "Ltr".*

Ltr

### FILED: 312.3 Channels

### INDEXER: rg

### REMARKS:

*Image: A hole punch mark is visible on the left edge of the page, lower down from the previous mark.*

## HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
## CORRESPONDENCE REFERENCE FORM

8-3867,AF
