Letter to Director;
June 8, 1954

significance. He said he intended to invite to the meeting all nationally prominent news commentators. He intended to try to get radio time to advertise the meeting but he did not wish to participate in this matter in any way if it would violate security regulations in any manner, or if BETHURUM and his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated that he so informed BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON and Mr. MANSPEAKER at the luncheon meeting which was held at the Terrace Plaza Hotel on 6-7-54. They informed him that they were not afraid of an investigation; that BETHURUM's story was factual, and that they had no objection to EICKHOFF's advising Government authorities regarding it.

Mr. EICKHOFF stated that his report to this office was part of his plan to inform all the Federal agencies he thought should know about the activities of BETHURUM. He advised that in line with his contemplated plans that on the evening of 6-7-54 there was to be another meeting at the home of L. H. STRINGFIELD, 7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at which meeting there would be Mr. STRINGFIELD, WILLIAMSON, MANSPEAKER, BETHURUM, RALPH ZIMMERMANN and Mr. EICKHOFF. He said at this meeting they would plan a method of operation and make arrangements for this meeting of national significance. He said he intended to set the date of the meeting far enough in advance so that if any Governmental agency determined that there was fraud involved that agency would have sufficient time to act prior to the holding of the meeting. He advised he intended to keep a detailed record of all actions taken by this group, and that he would voluntarily furnish such information to the FBI.

EICKHOFF advised that he had not known and had not met either BETHURUM, WILLIAMSON or MANSPEAKER prior to the events described above. He said that GEORGE HUNT WILLIAMSON identified himself as an archeologist and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in Noblesville, Indiana.

He said that MANSPEAKER, whose first name he did not know, is also connected with "Valor" magazine in some way.

He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in BETHURUM, and whether BETHURUM was sponsored by any other organization. He advised that he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in BETHURUM, and so far as he knew, BETHURUM was acting on his own and had no organizational affiliations or sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would be made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know what disposition would be made of the money. He said he understood that

- 4 -