## Memorandum for Mr. A. H. Belmont, 10/8/52

Colonel Young suggested that further contact be made with Mr. Albert Chop of the Office of Public Information, Office of the Secretary of Defense, who represents the Air Force in public relations contacts pertaining to flying saucer matters.

Mr. Chop was contacted and advised that he was familiar with the attached "New Yorker" magazine article. He advised that Lang had gathered most of the material about two years ago when considerable publicity regarding flying saucers had appeared in newspapers. He does not know where Lang gathered the material at that time but assumes that he gathered it from various sources, such as other newspaper articles. When the recent publicity regarding flying saucers appeared in newspapers, Lang renewed his interest in flying saucers and attempted to bring his article up to date. He contacted Mr. Chop for further current information. Mr. Chop advised that he gave Lang some routine items of interest regarding flying saucer complaints and investigations by the Air Force, but that he instructed Mr. Lang not to contact the Air Technical Intelligence Center for further information from that source. Mr. Chop also advised that at no time was the FBI mentioned and that he has no idea where Lang obtained the information appearing in his article concerning FBI investigations. Mr. Chop advised that he is thoroughly familiar with Bureau policy pertaining to flying saucer investigations, and that he at no time has indicated to any writer or newspaper representative that the FBI conducts investigations pertaining to flying saucers. Mr. Chop advised that, if the Bureau desires, he would be glad to contact Lang to discreetly determine where Lang obtained his information indicating that the FBI conducts investigations pertaining to flying saucers. He stated that he could make this contact without indicating in any way the Bureau has contacted him. He was advised that his offer of cooperation was appreciated, but that it was not desired that he make such an inquiry at the present time.

There is attached a current mimeographed form containing current information regarding the whole flying saucer matter which was turned over by Chop. This is the information which

- 2 -