## RESTRICTED

At approx 1420 7 Jan 48, Duesler accompanied by Lt Col E. G. Wood went to Godman Control Tower to observe an unidentified aerial object. Shortly after their arrival Col Hix, the Commanding Officer was summoned. At about this time Duesler first sighted a bright silver object. Then Col Hix arrived. Shortly thereafter a flight of four P-51's flew over Godman. Leader was contacted to pursue object. He assented and three P-51's climbed on the course, the fourth P-51 returning to base. Flight leader called to observe that "object was twelve o'clock high." Asked to describe it, he stated "it is bright and climbing away from me." He stated at first that it was going about 180 MPH. Then Control Tower lost sight of the flight but could still see the object. (In connection with this, Lt Col E. Garrison Wood who witnessed the sighting stated that while it appeared about 1/10 the size of a full moon, if the thing were a great distance away, as compared to the diminishing size of the P-51's flying toward it, it would seem that it was at least several hundred feet in diameter.) Shortly after NG 861, the flight leader, stated that he was "at 15,000 ft and still climbing" He stated that he judged the speed to be the same as his or approx 360 MPH. One of his planes then asked him to level off but no reply was heard from the flight leader. That was the last message received from any member of the flight.

After dark, another or the same object appeared in approx 234° from Godman at 6° elevation. This body moved to the west (259°) and then down. The shape was fluid but generally round with no tail, the color changing from white, to blue, to red to yellow and had a **black spot in the center** at all times.

At 1600 CST it was obscured by clouds.

**NOTE:** Later, an astronomer was contacted who attempted to account for this phenomena as either Venus or a comet. (?)