## CONFIDENTIAL

Witness observed very bright light in the sky southwest of Clinton County AF Base which appeared to be the complete wing of an aircraft on fire. When viewed thru field glasses from the Control Tower the object would gain and lose altitude very rapidly without any discernible forward or backward motion. At times it changed colors (from red to green, etc) At one time it disappeared behind the overcast but its light penetrated thru the overcast. At approximately 19:45 o'clock it began to move away from the field on a heading of 210° and disappeared over the horizon at approximately 19:55. (1st acct)

NOTE: See also 48, 48a, 48b, 48d & 33, 33a, 33b, 33c, 33d, 33e, 33f and 30 and 32.

At the time of the sighting the weather was clear over the Base, with a SouthWest wind which was moderate. There was an overcast in the SE which appeared to be a layer approximately 1000 feet thick. The height of this overcast was approximately 5,000 ft. Object seemed to be about 5 miles from the field at an altitude of from 15,000 to 20,000 ft. The object which appeared stationary at first resembled the complete wing of an airplane on fire. No beam of light was projected. After observing it with the naked eye for some five minutes, witness went to control tower and looked thru field glasses and then decided that it was not a comet or a falling star to his knowledge of astronomy. With the aid of the glasses the object appeared to go from an altitude of 15,000 to 10,000 feet without any noticeable forward or backward motion, and then back up to its original altitude very rapidly. This occurred some 3 or 4 times. When it moved a red light would dominate and change to a green light and then back to its original color. It then started to recede on a heading of 210° going behind the overcast. However, the light was discernible thru the overcast. It then moved very rapidly away, stopping momentarily for 3 or 4 minute intervals and then disappearing over the horizon at 1955. No sound was heard. No photographs were taken (From a signed statement (second account))

## CONFIDENTIAL

*[handwritten in bottom right margin]:* 102