He said that Manspeaker, whose first name he did not know, is also connected with "Valor" magazine in some way.

He was asked as to what interest "Valor" magazine has in Bethurum, and whether Bethurum was sponsored by any other organization. He advised that he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in Bethurum, and so far as he knew, Bethurum was acting on his own and had no organizational affiliations or sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would be made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised that he did not know what disposition would be made of the money. He said he understood that Bethurum had been on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled for Cincinnati originally on June 11, 1954 was to be the beginning of a new series of meetings.

William Dudley~~Pelley~~, Noblesville, Indiana reportedly operates the Soul Craft Press at Noblesville and among other pamphlets, published the weekly journal entitled "Valor", which Mr. Pelley describes as a "journal of the applied spirituality." This publication is said to deal mainly with practical mysticism, the spiritual movement called Soulcraft and the relationship between earth man and the individuals arriving on this planet from flying saucers. Mr. Pelley is said to claim that these individuals arriving in flying saucers are of greater intelligence and learning than the earth people and are here to give the earth people intellectual guidance and spiritual endowment and guidance.

On July 2, 1954, Thomas Eickhoff advised that no progress had been made with respect to holding a meeting for Truman Bethurum in Cincinnati, Ohio which would be of national significance. He said that Bethurum had returned to California but that there was a possibility that he would again come to Cincinnati, Ohio in the fall of 1954. At the same time Mr. Eickhoff advised that he had communicated with Donald E.~~Kehoe~~, author *D.C.* of the book "Flying Saucers From Outer Space" and had advised him that he had been informed by Lieutenant Colonel John O'Mara, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio that he was a fraud and that information is avail-

* *[handwritten note]:* *D.C.* (located near "Donald E. Kehoe")
* *[page number]:* - 5 -