WFO 62-0

*Annotations in red ink above first paragraph:*
*SWAN*
*ME*
*ME*

HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN's husband, GUY SWAN, and their daughter, DAWLYN, had also heard the buzzing sound in their ears, but have not been able to receive transmissions or messages. HUTSON stated that the transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why they were **here**, life on other planets, and life in the hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible. HUTSON advised that Mrs. SWAN could contact people in "outer space" by mental thought control.

According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN stated that there were two space ships from which she had been receiving messages. They were described as 150 miles wide, 200 miles in length, and 100 miles in depth. HUTSON stated that these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also contain mother ships which measure approximately 150 to 200 feet in length. HUTSON related that SWAN had informed him that there were approximately 5,000 of these mother ships. He stated that "AFFA" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus and "PONNAR" is the Manager or the Commander of the ship L-11 which is from the planet Hatann. HUTSON related that Mrs. SWAN stated that these contacts with "AFFA" and "PONNAR" were for the purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused by the explosion of the atom bomb, hydrogen bomb, and wars of various kinds which they, "AFFA" and "PONNAR," say disrupt the magnetic field of force which surrounds the earth. HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN also related that contact was made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because if the "fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would effect the entire universe. According to Mrs. SWAN, HUTSON stated, "AFFA" and "PONNAR" are presently working in the area of the Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are in danger of breaking.

HUTSON stated that both he and SMITH were looking for proof and they wanted to know whether they could contact the man from "outer space." According to HUTSON, SWAN advised that he and SMITH could make contact in "outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her first of the frequency that they were to use so that she could advise the people in "outer space." HUTSON stated that in connection with his contacting "outer space," he could make no commitment as he did not know how far the Navy would go. He advised, however, that SMITH stated that he would try to make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and was going to use a high frequency. HUTSON stated that to make sure that contact was made, Mrs. SWAN advised that the ship from "outer space" would come within 100 miles of Ottawa, Canada, so that SMITH would have no difficulty in making his contact.

HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wanted to know if physical contact could be had with the people in "outer space." SWAN advised HUTSON and KNOWLES that the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could provide them protection and that if physical contact were to be made, they would appear in a force which would consist of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers."

- 3 -