Mr. Eickhoff further related that about ten minutes after he had talked to Maday on Friday, June 4, 1954, he received a call from George Hunt Williamson and a Mr. Manspeaker, who confirmed to him that Maday was no longer associated with them, and asked that Eickhoff meet with them at a luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel, Cincinnati, Ohio on June 7, 1954.

Mr. Eickhoff, in explanation of his interest in this matter, advised that he had read such books as "Flying Saucers From Outer Space," written by Donald E. Kehoe, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book was published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled "Flying Saucers Have Landed," by George Adamski, which book is published by Werner-Lowery Company in England, and is distributed by the British Book Center in New York City. He said that he has also heard broadcasts by persons he considers reputable news commentators, such as Walter Winchell, Fulton Lewis, Jr., and Frank Edwards, to the effect that reliable persons have reported observing flying discs or saucers. He said contrary to these reports, the U. S. Air Force has denied the existence of the flying saucer and he felt that persons such as Truman Bethurum and George Hunt Williamson, in presenting a program such as that contemplated, were either truthful or they were frauds. He stated that if they had a true story to tell, then he felt it was of such nature that it should be given as wide a distribution as possible, so that the people might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. He said, however, if their story was not true, then the holding of such a meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud on the general public. He estimated that such a meeting in Cincinnati might draw two thousand people, which, at $2.00 apiece, would result in a $4,000.00 take for the promoters.

To identify Truman Bethurum, Mr. Eickhoff had with him two copies of the magazine "Valor," which he stated he got from Bethurum, this magazine being self-identified as the "Golden Times Weekly," published by Soul Craft Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana. The two issues which Mr. Eickhoff had with him were numbers 15 and 16 of volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being

- 2 -

*[handwritten in margin, top left]:* ohio
*[handwritten in margin, top right]:* Gnd.