-3-

THE EARTH SATELLITE ENIGMA -- ARE THEY MOSCOW'S ... METEORIC OR MARTIAN? Statements conflict, as usual. I first reported these two mysterious earth satellites in my April Newsletter ... then again, following Lt. Col. O'Mara's admission to me, June 8, that a govt. project was tracking the objects but that the evidence was conflicting.

I heard nothing more until Aug. 3 when Edward W. Hermann, special agent for McGraw-Hill Publications, told me Dave Anderton, Engineering Editor of Aviation Week, had received a report from Dr. Lincoln La Paz regarding the satellites, and, that it would "appear in detail in a coming issue." In that a correspondent friend, Ted Bloecher of New York, tells me he tried dozens of newstands for the magazine, but to no avail (indicating a sudden scarcity) I will quote the August 23, 1954 issue of Aviation Week:

"Pentagon scare over the observance of two previously unobserved satellites orbiting the earth had dissipated with the identification of the objects as natural, not artificial satellites. Dr. Lincoln La Paz ... headed the identification project. One satellite is orbiting about 400 miles out while the other track is 600 miles from the earth. Pentagon thought the Russians had beaten the U.S. to space operations."

Now, the rest of the story, thanks to Ted Bloecher. Says Ted: "Being of a nature that is naturally suspicious of anything printed, I wrote Dr. La Paz and requested that he verify this release. I received an answer yesterday. (Sept. 8). In his letter, Dr. La Paz regrets 'that Aviation Week's misleading satellite story has received such widespread and uncritical publicity.' Enclosed also was the letter he (La Paz) had written to A.P. Strangely enough, the papers were content with carrying the false report, for I've seen no mention of Dr. La Paz's correction on this report."
Following is copy of letter, in part, by Dr. La Paz, to the Associated Press:

"Scientifically and militarily, the search for nearby satellites of the earth is one of the most important on which mankind has ever embarked. It is therefore unfortunate, although not surprising, that false rumors are bound to be circulated in regard to the nature and results of this search.

"As regards the Aviation Week story on the satellite search, summarized in the A.P. release shown me, it is false in every particular insofar as reference to me is concerned. ... No one representing Aviation Week has questioned me concerning any possible connection I may have with the satellite search program, and no one whatever has been authorized to credit me with the activities attributed to me in the Aviation Week story."
            (Signed) Lincoln La Paz
            Director Institute of Meteoritics

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Your letters and clippings are greatly appreciated; each is carefully read and filed. Since the April Newsletter, more than 8000 letters have crossed my desk -- a tremendous load for just two people. My wife, Dell, handles all administrative details, subscriptions, mailing, etc., while I direct the research and prepare the Newsletter. We are both grateful for your kind letters and your enduring patience. KEEP THE MAIL COMING, but we're afraid to commit ourselves on a reply. The Newsletter is published first Friday of the month. Subscription $2.00 a year, starting with June 1954 issue. Six month subscriptions starting in April terminate with Oct. issue. Mark RENEWAL clearly with remittance. Back copies of April, May, June issues available at 25¢ each. Foreign subscriptions (except Canada) are $2.60 regular first class mail. Air Mail add 50¢ extra per issue of Newsletter.