-3-

The last sentence is extremely interesting. The reporter claims that when the space-men rose the wheels rose with them. That is exactly what a person of an unmechanical age would say. Men can move, but not an object. So they described the men as carrying the ships with them. We, of course would say the opposite, namely that the wheels or space-ships carried the space-men.

The "whirling wheels" are described as "full of eyes", in other words, full of round openings, port-holes, or power outlets, "all around and within". This description again tallies with observations and photographs made recently.

The space-ships are described as "darting to and fro, like the flash of lightning" (Ezk. 1). "When they went they went in any of their four directions *without turning* as they went. In whatever direction the front wheel (or ship) faced, the others followed without turning as they went". Besides describing their unbelievable maneuverability "without turning", this also seems to claim that they flew in formation, following a leader (also see Ezk. 10:9).

The fuel or power for these space-ships is found in the middle of the space-ship. It is described as "fire between the whirling wheels" (Ezk. 16:6). "In the midst there was something that looked like burning coals of fire, like torches moving to and fro, and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning" (Ezk. 1).

And now there follows a detail which is the very acme of veracity. "Over the head of the living creatures (space-men) there was the likeness of a firmament (the protective canopy over a pilot's head) shining like crystal (transparent glass), spread out above their heads" (Ezk. 1). This "glass globe" has also been observed on the "flying saucers" of today and photographed. It also seems that flying orders are given by remote control via radio or wireless. A voice is said to come "from above the firmament (canopy) over their heads". It is also claimed by this biblical reporter that part of these space-ships is collapsible and other parts retractable. The latter is perhaps the central turret which will be described later.

In flight these "whirling wheels" give off music (Rev. 4:8). This phenomenon has been reported in the holy books of other faiths much older than our own. "It's like the sound of many waters, like the thunder of the Almighty, a sound of tumult like the sounds of a host" (Ezk. 1:24 - 3:13). The word "host" is important to keep in mind because it refers no doubt to the great number of these space-ships flying together. The insignia which seems to be on the outer surface of the space-ships are recognizable as a cherub (a humorous or should we say "human" touch), the face of a man, a lion, and an eagle (Ezk. 1). These space-ships are given orders to patrol the earth, "Go and patrol the earth" (Zech. 6).

On the basis of what we have learned, certain events in scripture now are understandable and acceptable. Enoch, it is reported, went to another world without dying (Heb. 11:5), as perhaps Moses did also. Jacob thought he had a vision when he saw "a ladder set up on the earth and beheld angels or space-men, ascending and descending on it" (Gen. 28). The ladder obviously was let down from a space-ship for some purpose or other. Space-men had a particular interest in Jacob it seems, for on a later occasion he wrestled with one of them, the space-man only playing with Jacob until it was time for the space-man to go, whereupon he partially paralyzed Jacob (Gen. 32). It is interesting to note that space-men usually appear around sunset, during the night, or at sunrise. Through some whirl-wind-like action Elijah disappeared into space via a "flying chariot" (II Kings 2:11). Moses