August 27, 1947

Director, FBI
Re: Flying Discs - Tacoma, Wn.

1947, however, when CHRISMAN was approached in this regard, and they had gone to the boat house where CHRISMAN kept his boat, CHRISMAN could not seem to make the boat run, and after making some excuses that he had to return to his office, had stated that he would return in about an hour, and by that time his mechanic should have the boat repaired and they could all proceed to Mauri Island. Mr. ARNOLD informed that CHRISMAN never returned, and that they were unable to locate CHRISMAN at any of the telephone numbers he had given them.

They located DAHL in a movie, according to ARNOLD, and that DAHL, after making some efforts to locate CHRISMAN, had informed them that CHRISMAN had left town for a few days. He further informed that about this time the press contacted them and told them an informant had called and told them that CHRISMAN was on his way to Alaska in an Army plane.

Mr. ARNOLD advised that Captain SMITH had informed him that he had made an appointment with Major SANDERS at McCord Field and intended to tell Major SANDERS the complete story. During the afternoon, Captain SMITH and Major SANDERS came to the hotel room, according to ARNOLD, and some of the fragments that DAHL had brought to Mr. ARNOLD's room, following the conference, were shown to Major SANDERS. Upon viewing the fragments, Major SANDERS, according to Mr. ARNOLD, stated that they were nothing but slag from the copper mill, however, before Major SANDERS left, he gathered up every fragment in the room, according to Mr. ARNOLD, and took them with him. Mr. ARNOLD stated that he then left for Boise, Idaho.

Mr. ARNOLD produced a letter dated August 5, 1947, from PALMER in which PALMER attempts to encourage Mr. ARNOLD to continue his investigation into the flying discs. This letter is also being enclosed to the Bureau. Mr. ARNOLD also gave SA JETTE a copy of the article sent to Mr. PALMER and to the Commanding General, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, regarding his sighting of the nine discs near Mount Rainier on June 24, 1947. This article is also being enclosed to the Bureau. Mr. ARNOLD advised that he is vitally interested in this matter and knows that there must be something to the flying discssstory He stated that he will do everything in his power to help the Bureau in this matter. He also advised that he has no connection whatsoever with the Boise Statesman. He stated that the Boise Statesman has never paid him for any information he has given them. He informed that he sincerely believes that the Boise Statesman is attempting, as he is, to get to the bottom of the flying discs story. Mr. ARNOLD stated that he has told the above story to Army Intelligence and Major SANDERS and to no one else, with the exception of SA JETTE.

DAVE JOHNSON, Boise Statesman, Boise, Idaho, advised that the Boise Statesman has never paid Mr. ARNOLD for any news item he has given them, and has never approached him in this manner. He stated that the Boise Statesman is not attempting to push the flying discs story, but merely attempting to

-5-