SECRET//NOFORN

On *[REDACTED]* 2025, at approximately 1700 hours *[REDACTED]* [WITNESS 1 (a senior US intelligence official)], [FEDERAL PARTNER 1] and [FEDERAL PARTNER 2], accompanied by [WITNESS 2 (a senior US intelligence official)], and two pilots from [STATE PARTNER ORGANIZATION], departed the *[REDACTED]* [OPERATIONS CENTER] ([COORDINATES]), *[REDACTED]* ([FACILITY]) main *[REDACTED]* area via a [STATE PARTNER ORGANIZATION] helicopter (call sign [CALL SIGN 1]) to conduct a daytime ariel search of the [MOUNTAIN RANGE NAME] west of [SITE CODE NAME] on [FACILITY]. Previous eyewitness reports from personnel who observed orbs/lights IVO *[REDACTED]* ([COORDINATES]) cited hearing thuds as if something has fallen and hit the ground. (Note: Earlier that day the *[REDACTED]* Office *[REDACTED]* completed a successful test of the *[REDACTED]* at [SITE CODE NAME] ([COORDINATES]) on [FACILITY]).

At 1751 hours *[REDACTED]* [CALL SIGN 1] spotted a large cavern entrance ([COORDINATES]) and conducted a short orbit of the location *[REDACTED]*.

At approximately 2050 hours *[REDACTED]* [CALL SIGN 1] landed west of the *[REDACTED]* mountains and dropped off [WITNESS 2] with [FEDERAL PARTNER 3] personnel. At 2052 hours *[REDACTED]* [CALL SIGN 1] headed toward [SITE CODE NAME] to refuel. A second helicopter ([STATE PARTNER ORGANIZATION] – [CALL SIGN 2]) briefly landed at [SITE CODE NAME] to await refueling but then lifted off and returned to the *[REDACTED]*.

At 2141 hours *[REDACTED]* [CALL SIGN 1] lifted off from [SITE CODE NAME] and headed toward debris spotted by the Listening Post/Observation Post (LP/OP - [FEDERAL PARTNER 4]) personnel using Forward Looking Infrared (FLIR) and Night Vision Goggles (NVG)- position ([COORDINATES])) located approximately four miles east of [SITE CODE NAME] in the mountains *[REDACTED]* location ([COORDINATES])). [CALL SIGN 1] orbited the location while searching with NVGs (pilots) and the naked eye ([WITNESS 1]) with the aid of the helicopter's spotlight in near full darkness for several minutes with negative results.

At approximately 2149 hours, [CALL SIGN 1] departed the search location to return to base and received notification from LP/OP that *[REDACTED]* had *[REDACTED]* hits bearing *[REDACTED]*, 4 miles out from their location. The JOC then provided coord ([COORDINATES]). [CALL SIGN 1] moved to intercept.

At 2202 hours *[REDACTED]* [CALL SIGN 1] arrived at the aforementioned coordinates and spotted a possible aircraft on the horizon moving away to the west. LP/OP confirmed the sighting then relayed they spotted an orb under FLIR and described as "super-hot" hovering at ground level before heading bearing *[REDACTED]* from LP/OP. LP/OP reported the orb was heading east and then south at a high rate of speed and then broke into two objects. LP/OP directed [CALL SIGN 1] to head south to [COORDINATES] to intercept.

SECRET//NOFORN