These appear best when the approaching car is some distance away, perhaps a quarter or half a mile. The results at night may not be as impressive as those in the late afternoon because at night your ventilation wing window makes a more perfect mirror and the passing landscape is not as pronounced, therefore, the reflections therein are more easily detected as reflections. In the late afternoon, however, you have a feeling that you are actually looking through the glass and the reflected objects appear more real. The sun shining on a bright ring on your finger with your hand resting on the steering wheel may cast disc-like reflections in your wind shield. The form of the reflection will depend upon the ornamental decorations on your ring.

The rear door handle on my automobile reflects nine beautiful, little, silver, flying discs in the bright sun-light. These appear in the lower part of the ventilation wing and when traveling on a level highway, they appear to be racing along with me at the road side. These nine discs appear in a formation of two rows of four each, with the ninth one in the lead at the center of the formation. They appear as whirling propellers in a vertical position. These discs also have streamers which are due to the curvature and decorative pattern on the handle. While traveling north in the early afternoon under a bright sun, these nine discs appeared far below to my left, racing up the valley at a terrific rate.

You may be able to see flying discs in your own home. If you will turn on a small electric light in the hall-way and then bok through the window at the other end of the hall,

(5)