*[handwritten in upper left margin]:* 3 . . .

## Excerpt from letter to Dr. R. Tousey from Mr. John F. Cole

*[handwritten in upper right margin]:* COPY

### South Brooksville, Me.
July 28, 1947.

Having in mind the ridicule which has been heaped on those innocent or perhaps gullible individuals who have reported disks, I would be a little cautious in interpreting. But it is safe to say truthfully, that something unusual attracted my attention, and I was in a perfectly sober condition, barring the mild stimulation, afforded by cool spring water filtering through North Haven greenstone cracks. It should be easy to determine if the "disks" were a new type jet plane, or bomber, or rocket. The fact that it was July 3, about 2:30 P.M. (summer time) or Greenwich Civil time 1830 might suggest that they were engaged in some naval demonstration from Eastport, Bar Harbor or Belfast. The group appeared to be at an altitude of about 50^o -- I suffer from a mild cervical arthritis--but my eyes are well corrected for astigmatism and hypermetropia, and I doubt if my cerebral cortical Lesions are sufficiently advanced to affect my balance. What first made me look up was the unusually loud roar and I was surprised not to see a well defined group of planes quite near. Instead I had to look rather sharply to see the bunch of very light colored objects, in a general northerly direction and travelling roughly in a NW (true) direction. This was reasonably correct, as I was on Cox's hill, and looked over towards Backwood's Mount, that is the conspicuous flat topped planted hill at Harborside. The group could hardly have covered more than 1 1/2^o angular diameter in the sky, and bunched rather closely with no regular formation. There might have been 10, I couldn't say and with 90' of arc spread, would easily be within the limit of visibility for discreet objects. As a group they were going so as to cover 30^o of arc, estimated of course, in perhaps 10 or 15 seconds. If one of them, say, subtended 1/10^o, with a possible wing spread of 100 feet, it would put it at a distance of over 10 miles, and quite invisible for a light object. Besides, with 30^o arc of travel at a 10 mi. distance would be roughly 5 miles in 15 seconds or 20 mi. per minute or 1200 mi. per hour!! --rather fast for a bomber -- hi. A 50 ft. object at 5 miles dist. would be about 600 mi. per hr. -- also fast going. The only concrete evidence of form appeared on the left tangent of the group -- two dark shaped forms: *[hand-drawn sketch of two small, dark, roughly rectangular or trapezoidal shapes, one slightly above and to the left of the other]* which may have been tail wings. Doesn't the Douglass bomber have these? And since they were in no regular formation, but seemed among themselves to be moving irregularly like a swarm of bees, why shouldn't all of them have shown wings? The loud roar suggests they may have been much closer, and rather small. The sky background was hazy blue, and the sun behind me. One plane towing a lot of balloons, I believe, would have been easily recognized. Have any meteorites been reported? At that time of day, has there been any abrupt change of radio field strength? or ionization?

*[handwritten in lower right margin]:* 53