1997 by Laurance Rockefeller at Pocantico, near West Point, on the property of the Rockefeller Bros. Fund. Moderated by astrophysicist Peter Sturrock, this colloquium focused on physical evidence concerning UFOs.

Specialists on radar, the biological effects of microwaves, photography, etc., who often were not very familiar with the UFO problem, formed a scientific council there that judged the papers presented by the UFO researchers. French participation was quite noteworthy; it consisted of the head of SEPRA and two members of the scientific council. A summary document expressed the desire that many countries have a UFO research organization comparable to that of France

## Colonel Corso's theory

In July 1997, for the fiftieth anniversary of the Roswell incident, an astonishing book entitled *The Day After Roswell* was published. It was written by Colonel Corso, who from 1953 to 1957 was the military member of the National Security Council Staff and thus was in constant contact with President Eisenhower. The foreward of this book was written by Strom Thurmond, the current chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who, already a member of this committee, appointed Corso as congressional attaché when he left the Army in 1963. The author states that the object found at Roswell was indeed an extraterrestrial vessel. He reportedly saw for himself, in July 1947, the cadaver of one of the occupants preserved in a glass coffin. From 1961-1962, as chief of foreign technology in the Army R & D Department, he apparently was tasked with discretely allowing U.S. industry to benefit from the extremely high-tech objects found in the wreckage (according to him: printed circuits, a laser, light intensifier, etc.).

Colonel Corso affirms that high-ranking military officers and some U.S. congressmen know about the existence of extraterrestrial craft in our skies. They have concealed it from the public to avoid panics, but full disclosures are going to be able to be made, because the United States, which has been striving to do this for 50 years, reportedly now has the means to counter a possible UFO attack. Some of these claims are surprising at the very least, but the entire contents of the book cannot be easily dismissed when one considers the remarkable career of its author and Senator Thurmond's tribute to him. It is true that the latter requested that his fforeward not appear in reprints of the book, a request that was granted. The author allegedly had not told him that the book was about UFOs... But it is difficult to believe that the foreward writer, the third in line in the U.S. Government to succeed the President, and the publisher, Simon & Schuster, were not acting with full knowledge of the facts at the time of the first printing. As soon as the book came out, the U.S. Air Force published a second report on Roswell again denying the plausibility of the hypothesis of the crash of an extraterrestrial craft. The first report, which was published in 1994, was presented as the first official study on UFOs since the end of the Blue Book [Project] in 1969 (see "Roswell and Disinformation" in Appendix [5]). This reaction is not incompatible with Colonel Corso's theories; it may be intended to reassure those whom Corso's revelations might worry.

### 9.2 Organization of the Research in the United Kingdom

Great Britain has been the scene of several remarkable cases. We presented the Lakenheath "radar/visual" case (1956) in Chapter 2. The RAF and the Ministry in charge of it therefore became interested in UFOs very early on, but we do not possess much