therefore be discrete, using high-speed and silent craft to move through the planet's atmosphere (MHD propulsion offers interesting prospects in this respect), and non lethal weapons to avoid the consequences of an untimely encounter (the paralyzing effect of pulsed microwaves is under study in several countries).
When the civilization visited has reached the stage of space voyages, it will become necessary to make it aware of the existence of visitors. One way to do this, without causing trauma, would be to commit "calculated indiscretions" that would accustom the population, little by little, to the idea that there could indeed be extraplanetary visits.

## Appendix 5 - The Roswell Affair - Disinformation

### 1) Roswell: indisputable facts
*Note: the parenthetical annotation (video) indicates that video testimonies are available*
Summer 1947 - The Roswell (New Mexico) base houses the only nuclear-armed bombers in the world. The bombers still have propellers.
June 24 - Sighting of nine UFOs by American Kenneth Arnold. The news is broadcast throughout the world.
July 8 (morning), Roswell - The base provides the local radio stations with information that would circle the globe: a flying disk had crashed on a ranch and the military personnel from the base recovered the debris (video).
July 8 (afternoon), Fort Worth (Texas) - General Ramey, Commander of the 8th Air Force, who commands the base, announces to journalists that after examination of the debris, [it was determined that] they were from a weather balloon. He shows them some of the debris, which the journalists photograph. The affair was buried for over thirty year.
1978 - Lieutenant Colonel Marcel (ER), an intelligence officer on the base in 1947 who recovered the debris, declares on television that the debris was definitely of extraterrestrial origin (video). The debris that General Ramey had shown the journalists was not the debris that Marcel had brought him from Roswell.
American ufologists conduct numerous investigations and collect affidavits (sworn and notarized written statements) and filmed testimonies. Many witnesses state that in July 1947, military personnel had threatened them with death if they talked (video). According to some testimonies, at some distance from the field of debris, the Army had found the frame of a sort of space glider and cadavers of small humanoids (video).
1991 -General du Bose [sic] (CR), who was General Ramey's chief of staff in 1947, confirms by affidavit that the latter had substituted the debris from a weather balloon, which he had shown the journalists, for the debris sent by the Roswell base.
Beginning of 1994 - U.S. Representative Schiff (New Mexico) asks the Department of Defense (DoD) for explanations regarding the affair. Not obtaining any, he requests that the General Accounting Office (GAO) conduct an inquiry into the manner in which the Air Force, primarily, had handled the documents relating to the Roswell crash.
September 1994 - The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force publishes a report on Roswell: the debris found on the ranch cannot be from an aircraft or a missile. They are probably debris from a series of balloons from the secret Mogul project. To protect the secret, General Ramey leads everyone to believe it is a weather balloon, the materials of which (essentially the shell and radar reflector) are the same. The report shortens the affidavits of certain witnesses so that the strange debris that they describe appears to be debris from a Mogul balloon. It does not mention the frame and attributes the "bona fide testimonies" regarding humanoids to "foggy memory."