2.3),
- witnesses paralyzed, engines shutting off, lights going out (San Carlos de Bariloche, Chapter 2.5).
The advances that have been made in the conquest of space and in the development of nuclear technology could be troubling them. Wouldn't it be logical to think that these extraterrestrial civilizations have established stations, even colonies, in the asteroid belt and why not relay stations on the moon? Our forays and projects studied in the United States for modifying the orbits of asteroids using H bombs in order to bring them closer to the earth's orbit for mining purposes could be disturbing them. For the moment, they do not appear to be meddling in our affairs, but it is advisable to ask ourselves what they are actually seeking. Do they want to invade earth? To preserve it from nuclear self-destruction? To learn about and preserve the patrimony that our civilizations have created over the span of centuries? In view of these uncertainties concerning their intentions, we can't tell what the future holds and, in particular, we cannot consider that they will continue not to intervene. Some of their undertakings in regard to us might, therefore, not be innocent in the long term. Perhaps they don't have any need for our sensibilities or the politics of States?

## 10.3 Repercussions of UFO Manifestations on the Official and Unofficial Conduct of States

The repercussions have been varied in scope. Based on what can be learned of the reactions of States, it is permissible under our hypothesis to classify them as:
a) States that have no knowledge of extraterrestrial phenomena _ or believe they are not concerned.
b) States that know of extraterrestrial phenomena but have no means to investigate them,
c) States that know of extraterrestrial phenomena and have the means to investigate them,
d) States that have entered into contact with one or more extraterrestrial civilizations and that have established relations and/or entered into political, scientific, and technical collaboration.

## 10.4 Have Contacts Possibly Been Made with One or More States?

Individuals claim to have been contacted for the purpose of studies or with a view to establishing relations between one intelligent life form and another. Can we imagine direct and continuous contacts at the highest level of one or more States, particularly the United States? It is true that the position of that country has been among the strangest since the wave [of sightings] in June 1947, followed by the Roswell affair in July 1947 (cf. Appendix 5). If the Americans were able on that occasion or on other occasions to collect at least debris or entire wreckage of extraterrestrial vessels in fairly good condition, and even cadavers of humanoids, a certain type of contact would then have been established.
First statements and reactions are often considered to be more probative than subsequent affirmations. Thus immediately following what would later become the Roswell affair, General Twining was tasked with preparing a secret report on "*flying disks,*" the existence of which was not revealed until 22 years later in the Condon report. It emerges from this that these objects truly do exist. But since then the United States has followed a policy of increasing secrecy (classification above "*top secret*" of certain UFO