propulsion using antimatter in solar or interstellar space. It was also in the United States where the astronomer Papagiannis won a NASA study contract a few years ago to detect possible space cities in the asteroid belt located between the planets Mars and Jupiter. In carrying out the study, he examined the photos taken in 1983 by the *IRAS* [Infrared Astronomical Satellite] satellite and looked for possible abnormal infrared emissions coming from objects in this belt. It would seem that NASA did not renew Papagiannis’ contract, which apparently did not yield any results.

## 12.4 Special Studies

Some studies do not come under the “hard” sciences and technologies: for interstellar voyages, the stability of the earmarked societies requires study. What, in particular, is their minimum size? The different attempts at disinformation made by certain foreign governments should be analyzed discretely, but in depth. The wish of these governments to appropriate for themselves alone any possible futuristic technologies relating to military aircraft and weapons might help explain these attempts (see Appendices 5 and 7). It would be advisable to already be anticipating the measures to be taken and the decisions to be made should events such as indubitable physical or radio contacts with an outside civilization take place.

## Chapter 13 - Political and Religious Implications

An assessment of the impact that the formal confirmation of the existence of UFOs and extraterrestrial civilizations would have on the political and religious situation of the countries on earth could be a bit of a challenge. However, the task is less arduous when we try to put ourselves in the shoes of extraterrestrials who supposedly have chosen earth as a field of observation and/or intervention. We will use this method. It is appropriate, of course, to postulate that the technical and human difficulties have been resolved, permitting us to exceed the limits of our solar system, and even our galaxy:
- Either in secular voyages aboard “ship-worlds,” in which thousands of volunteers who have embarked would see their generations reproduce. It is necessary to keep in mind that these craft will not be able to one day return to earth, at least that is what we are assuming, which would confer - *de facto* - a political autonomy and freedom of decision to the onboard government independent of orders and programs established prior to departing earth (cf. Appendix 4: “Colonization of Space”).
- Or, in [voyages of] several months or years - based on totally revolutionary scientific concepts and techniques that remain to be imagined - using aircraft or probes piloted by classic crews or by bionic androids, which would follow the instructions received from a parent station or from earth.

During the course of these explorations, we might discover one or more celestial bodies populated with beings that have evolved more or less similarly to us, “humans,” humanoid, or even stranger creatures. They may have created civilizations that are comparable to or more advanced than our present civilization, or they may be endowed with only rudimentary aptitudes for civilization, unless they still remain only at the elementary survival stage.

*(Nota Bene: in this chapter, the numbers in parentheses refer to the references, pp. 87 to 89)*