files, according to General Barry Goldwater) and constant disinformation. The strange conclusions of the Condon report are just one case in point. Why would, and how could, such an important secret be kept all the way up to the present, despite everything? The simplest response would be that the United States wants to maintain at any cost military technological superiority over rival countries and, perhaps, a preferential contact.

This policy of secrecy and disinformation could have been dictated by an understandable concern for not creating panic reactions or irrational crazes among the public, or the concern at the time for protecting the country against actions by the USSR, or else, in a more prosaic and political fashion, not appearing in the eyes of voters to be incapable of providing convincing explanations regarding these phenomena. No doubt it would not do to undermine the prestige of the armed forces, which was incapable of interdicting these violations of air space, and invite attacks against the military budgets on the part of political opponents. Anything is conceivable, even the fear of seeing various government agencies accused of having lied at one time or another.

Whatever the case, it is symptomatic and illustrative to note that since 1953, the United States has equipped itself with an impressive repressive arsenal, which is still in force, it seems. In particular, they enacted two military regulations, AFR (Air Force Regulation) 200-2 and JANAP (Joint Army Navy Air Force Publication) 146, the first prohibiting the public disclosure of information relating to sightings of unidentified objects and the second making the unauthorized disclosure of a UFO sighting by the witness an infraction punishable by 10 years in prison and a $10,000 fine. The JANAP regulation applies to military personnel, but also to commercial airline pilots and captains in the merchant marine.

### 10.5 What Measures Must We Take From Now On?

Whether or not UFOs are extraterrestrial in origin, the UFO phenomenon is already with us and, at any rate, requires critical vigilance on our part. In particular, the phenomenon involves risks of destabilizing manipulations from a media, psychological, cultural, and religious standpoint: panic fear, world wars, psychoses created by sects or lobbies, etc. These appreciable risks of cosmic fear, as well as the discovery and no doubt conquest of the cosmos that is to come, henceforth justify, on the part of the political, scientific, and intellectual elite, a certain degree of cosmic vigilance calculated to prevent any shocking surprise, erroneous interpretation, and malicious or unhealthy manipulation.

Without a doubt, measures must be contemplated on the national and international levels. Specifically, whatever the givens are with respect to American political problems, and in the face of a posture of ongoing secrecy, how can we conceive of harmonious political and military relations among allies, and particularly within NATO, which normally must be founded on basic trust, if access to information of incalculable importance - particularly technological information - is not shared?

### 10.5.1 National Structures

If France wants to affirm its presence in this domain, it seems urgent to expand SEPRA, which must: