The nature of these influences will vary according to the type of civilization, its technological development, and its psychological acclimatization or lack thereof to the existence of extraterrestrial civilizations. It would be advisable beforehand to accustom the mind of these populations to the idea of the probable existence of extraterrestrial civilizations (science-fiction novels, films, cartoon strips, video games, advertisements, a favorable psychological climate, [and] why not suitable sects?, etc.).
New and essential technological knowledge could be provided via different avenues or by means of chance or provoked accidents with one of our spacecraft. The contemporary Roswell case thus comes to mind. In order for this case to be retained in full (or disposed of), it would still be necessary for the U.S. government to accept to show, communicate and let analyze, without beating around the bush, all of the elements that it actually recovered on that occasion.

### 13.4 Phase Four: Direct Contacts

A fourth phase would be that of establishing direct contact with the locals or with entire populations, whether or not a vanguard of bionic robots were used. Once again, the goals sought must be precisely determined. The benefit and true utility of establishing such contacts must be weighed with care in order to calculate the risks and consequences. A stringent program could plan for these. However, a serious technical accident affecting one of our spacecraft could be the start of an unofficial contact, a necessary settlement, or a colonization, or even, if necessary, an information-disinformation campaign. It is also advisable to envision the sedition of some of our crews whom it might be necessary to disembark or who might decide on their own authority to live on one of the worlds discovered and, eventually , mix with the indigenous populations, going against orders received, whatever happens not to intervene or interfere in local affairs. These contacts presuppose that the worlds discovered are populated with human beings or hominids whose complexion is identical or close to ours. But under the hypothesis of contacts and planned long-term settlements of members of our crews, should mixes be prohibited, as prophylaxis, by imposing a major ban on them (12) or, on the contrary, should they be tolerated and even encouraged? Bearing in mind that direct or prolonged contacts would inevitably lead the indigenous populations to believe, *in fine*, that we are not so different from them. It would be prudent, however, to send remote-controlled androids in advance in order to assess the reactions that such an intrusion would arouse, or to acclimate the populations to the idea through furtive, episodic appearances.

#### 13.4.1 Direct Contacts with Preindustrial-Age Civilizations

It is certain that such contacts would immediately cause the local populations to imagine that they are in the presence of gods. Historical parallels naturally come to mind: the arrival of the Spaniards in Central America in armor and on horseback, or, more generally, the arrival of the Europeans at the time of the discovery and exploration of the globe. The impact on populations that had never seen horses, armor that shone brightly in the sun, or white men, particularly with blond or red hair, must have been felt strongly. However, the shock of these apparitions would be quickly lessened with the multiplication of relations, and even more so if our crews were to take an eminent place in the local political and military orders. This, of course, relates back to the different epics of the discovery of the world, European colonization, and also the end of the western empires.