which we know can cause effects of this type and which can be easily formed into beams to act from a distance. Under these conditions, microwave emissions from unknown objects would be likely to create around the vehicle an electrical field strong enough to cause, when added to the ignition voltages, ionization and electrical breakdown of the air around the high voltage circuit of the engine ([ignition] coil, distributor, spark plug wire), thus short-circuiting the firing pulses to the engine mass and shutting it off.
Since electronic ignition came into widespread use in the 70s, the action of microwaves, apart from the mechanism previously described, may be exerted directly, paralyzing the electronic circuit generating the high voltage. We can therefore envision the action of unknown objects on land vehicles, including nowadays those with diesel engines, which are made vulnerable due to their more and more common electronic regulation circuit. Let us recall that the ability to generate high power microwave beams is within the capabilities of our own technologies, as demonstrated by the intensive work being carried out in the United States and the former USSR to develop microwave weapons intended precisely to destroy or immobilize enemy electronic systems from a distance, and even to act on personnel. In France, high power microwave generators that can be used for this purpose are being studied.
This does not rule out the possibility of other types of radiation being used. Charged particle beams would be capable of analogous effects, passing through, if necessary, living matter, such as the bodies of some witnesses, without being felt by the latter or leaving any notable or lasting sequels..
This can be illustrated by the beams of accelerators used in proton therapy, which begin by passing through tissue without causing too much damage and becoming destructive only when their energy falls below a certain threshold as a result of their penetration.
This mode of action corresponds, moreover, to certain testimonies that report the observation of beams of light passing through physical obstacles; in fact, by ionizing the air, proton beams generally do become visible in the form of truncated beams of light the length of which is a function of their initial energy.

### 8.1.3 Locomotive Paralysis of Some Witnesses

This phenomenon is less common. It is remarkable in that the paralysis reported only affect certain voluntary movements, but not respiration or posture (balance, in particular, is not compromised; the witnesses do not fall down) or eye movements. From the standpoint of concepts, it can be remarked that in human beings posture and respiration are controlled by the cerebellum, an organ that is independent of the cerebrum, which governs voluntary movements. The paralysis effects observed can reasonably be attributed to microwaves acting from a distance on certain parts of the human body (this is also one of the objectives of the work mentioned above on microwave weapons). We should note that these effects, among others, are being studied at the Air Force Weapons Laboratory at Kirtland AFB.

### 8.2 Modeling and Credibility

The fact that we can formulate a credible hypothesis on the propulsion of the objects sighted is obviously only a positive indication, but not proof of their existence, no more than that of their conformity to the model that we imagine.
In this regard, the history of the technique teaches humility, but it can also yield quasi