because it shone so intensely. Its brightness came from lights arranged in a rectangle, changing rapidly from glue to green, to red, and to orange.
- Suddenly a bright object with an apparent diameter one half or one third of that of the moon exited the UFO and headed rapidly for the F-4. The pilot tried to shoot a Sidewinder missile at the object, but at the same instant his fire control console and his means of communication (radio and intercom) became inoperable. He promptly initiated a bank and a dive, but the object changed direction and pursued the aircraft at a distance of approximately 6 km. Finally, the object moved inside the F-4's bank and departed in order to reenter the UFO from which it had exited.
- A short time afterwards, an object again exited the UFO and rapidly headed straight down to the ground. The F-4 crew waited to see it explode, but the object seemed to touch down gently and shine a very bright light over an area 2 to 3 km in diameter. The crew, momentarily blinded, orbited long enough to recover their night vision before landing at the Tehran airfield. It noted that it lost communications (radio and intercom) whenever their aircraft crossed a certain zone. It should be pointed out that a civilian aircraft also lost communications when it crossed that zone. The next day, the crew was taken by helicopter to the place where the object had apparently landed, a dried up lake, but it didn't find any trace [of the object].

An attached note from DIA was just as astonishing as the report itself; it indicated that the information had been confirmed by other sources and ended with this assessment:
> "An outstanding report. This case is a classic which meets all the criteria necessary for a valid study of the UFO phenomenon."
>> a. *The object was seen by multiple witnesses from different locations...*
>> b. *The credibility of many of the witnesses was high (an Air Force General, qualified aircrews, and experienced radar operators).*
>> c. *Visual sightings were confirmed by radar.*
>> d. *Similar electromagnetic effects (EME) were reported by three separate aircraft.*
>> e. *There were physiological effects on some crew members (i.e. loss of night vision due to the brightness of the object).*
>> f. *An inordinate amount of maneuverability was displayed by the UFOs."*
The attempt by Klass to trivialize this case shows how solid it is.

### 2.4 Russia (March 21, 1990)

This case took place at night in the Pereslavl-Zalesski region east of Moscow. It was reported in an article by Aviation General Igor Maltsev, Air Defense Forces commander, which appeared in the newspaper *Rabochaya Tribuna* ("Workers' Tribune") on April 19, 1990, entitled "UFOs on Air Defense Radars" (cf. the book by Marie Galbraith referenced in Chapter 9.1).

The article mentions the dispatch of combat aircraft on a mission to intercept the UFOs detected. General Maltsev, who summarized over one hundred visual sightings collected by unit commanders, stated:
> *"I am not a specialist in UFOs, and therefore I can only correlate the data and express my own supposition. According to the evidence of these eyewitnesses, the UFO is a disk with a diameter from 100 to 200 meters [320 to 650 feets]. Two pulsating lights were positioned on its sides... Moreover, the object rotated around its axis and performed an 'S-turn' flight both in the vertical and horizontal planes. Next the UFO hovered above the ground and then flew with a speed exceeding that of the modern jet fighter by two or three times .. The objects flew at altitudes ranging from 100 to 7000 m. [300 to 24,000 feet]. The movement of the UFOs was not accompanied by sound of any kind and was distinguished by its startling maneuverability. It seemed the UFOs were completely devoid of inertia. In other words, they had somehow 'come to terms' with gravity. At the present time, terrestrial*