adversary, understand his intentions, and ascertain his modes of action. In the case in question, we can only advance hypotheses formulated on the basis of the facts observed and their interpretation, while trying to answer three questions: Who are they? What are their intentions? Are they seeking to make contact or have they already done so?

### 10.1 What Extraterrestrials? Who Are They and What Are They Like?

A relative consistency emerges from the numerous descriptions of the phenomena: saucer, luminous sphere or cylinder, hovering followed by accelerations at lightning speed, the absence of noise, easily supersonic speed with no sonic boom, associated electromagnetic effects that interfere with the operation of nearby radio or electrical apparatus. Obviously, these extraterrestrials are highly endowed intellectually and are technologically advanced over us to have been able to achieve what we do not yet know how to do. But the rest remains a mystery! Morphology, physical make-up, type of life, manner of communication and form of society, sense of values, concept of time, motivations, etc. If they are observing us, it is necessary to note an apparent contradiction between the interest that they show in us and their furtiveness. Rather than observe us, it seems that they want to show themselves to us and to gradually acclimate us to the idea of their existence.

### 10.2 What Intentions and What Strategy Can We Deduce from Their Behavior?

Extrapolation based on a rational analysis of the objectives that the extraterrestrial civilization or civilizations could be pursuing should permit us to get an idea of the strategies that they are implementing and should consequently lead us, in response, to deduce the broad lines of what our own strategies might be. UFOs have manifested themselves in many places throughout the world in recent decades, with surprising peaks between 1952 and 1954, without our being able to deduce a well-defined course of action. What are they seeking?

After the observation phase and the phase of demonstrating that they exist, it would seem logical to us for them to be seeking to leave their mark and impose their will on the States of the earth, but at present, nothing allows us to deduce from their manifestations the existence of a driving desire serving purposes that we are presently unable to discern. It is plausible that preferred contacts can be attributed to the United States. But nothing contradicts the possible establishment of other contacts with some European countries or even with Russia, China, or Japan, [or] others perhaps... However, it seems difficult to imagine that they could have been able to position themselves on earth with the complicity of certain States. Moreover, the hypotheses of contacts do not enable us to deduce the existence of some *status quo* with these visitors. Actually, the sporadic manifestations of UFOs and even the occurrence of repeated waves [of sightings] have continued since 1947. One would have every right to think that these visitors - fortified by their superiority - are showing their intention to continue to make themselves known in the most diverse locations on the planet and to continue to carry out their plans, the aims and means of which still escape us. It could be that, before 1947 and after, they have had fears for the future of earth, a future threatened by risks of nuclear war. Their influences have been able to be accompanied by appropriate demonstrations:
- overflights of nuclear missile bases, an example of which is given in Chapter 3,
- intimidation maneuvers against aircraft as in Luxeuil and Tehran (Chapters 1.1 and