## Letter to the Director

**11/9/50**

and there seemed to be no attachments or projections of any kind, just a complete circular ball. He had no idea as to the method of propulsion but advised that at the time it seemed to change directions, probably over New York City, that it had seemed to back up and go forward, possibly two or three times in order to execute a change of direction. There were no clouds in the sky that interfered with his vision of this object and he could not comment as to whether or not this object penetrated or circumvented clouds. The object left no trail of any kind and Mr. HITCHENS mathematically calculated its speed at between four hundred and seven hundred miles per hour, depending on the height which he stated he could not accurately compute. He advised that he could not recall any odors and had no idea as to its construction. To his knowledge the only other persons in this area to have witnessed this object were his wife and daughter. Immediately upon sighting the object, his wife ran to the door of neighbors occupying the same house as the HITCHENS to bring them to the yard. However, these neighbors ~~had~~ not witnessed ~~the object~~ *as by* the time they got outside the object had disappeared.

Mr. HITCHENS stated that he is a Chemical Engineer, has fifteen years of experience in research and development. He is not a pilot but has done considerable flying and has also done considerable reading, including technical data concerning flying saucers and discs. He understands from reading the above matters that the star Venus is often mistaken by observers for flying saucers and he pointed out that he feels that he is familiar with astronomy not to confuse the object he saw with Venus as he also recalls Venus in the sky on that particular evening and compared the size of this object as being ten times Venus' diameter. He also states that he computed the speed at which this object was traveling by using points in his area, such as, roof tops and tree tops together with the distance he walked on the ground in order to keep the object in sight.

Mr. HITCHENS was advised that the Bureau would turn this information over to another agency and indicated that this was according to his approval. He specifically requested that no public announcement or comment be given to the fact that he had reported seeing the above object. Mr. HITCHENS appeared to be a very reliable and sincere individual and evidences considerable technical knowledge and experience in reporting the above incident.

***

*-2-*