noticed it directly overhead. The same steady orange glow persisted during the entire time that he witnessed it. Although this object was actually cut from his sight by nearby trees, Mr. Hitchens stated that it was so far away at that time that he probably would have lost sight of it very shortly. The object made no sound whatsoever, and there seemed to be no attachments or projections of any kind. Mr. Hitchens stated the object was a complete circular ball. He had no idea as to the method of propulsion, but advised that at the time it seemed to change directions, probably over New York City, and that it seemed to back up and go forward, possibly two or three times, in order to execute a change of direction. There were no clouds in the sky which interfered with his vision, and he could not comment as to whether or not this object penetrated or circumvented clouds. The object left no trail of any kind, and Mr. Hitchens mathematically calculated its speed at between 400 and 700 miles per hour, depending on the height, which he stated he could not accurately compute. He advised that he could not recall any odors and had no idea as to the construction of the object.

To Mr. Hitchens' knowledge, the only other persons in this area to have witnessed the object were his wife and daughter. Immediately upon sighting the object, Mrs. Hitchens ran to the door of neighbors occupying the same house as the Hitchens to bring them to the yard. However, these neighbors did not witness the object, since it disappeared before they got outside.

Mr. Hitchens stated that he is a Chemical Engineer and has fifteen years of experience in research and development. He is not a pilot, but has done considerable flying, and has also done considerable reading, including technical data concerning flying saucers and discs. He understands from reading the above matters that the star Venus is often mistaken by observers for flying saucers, and he pointed out that he feels that he is familiar with astronomy and did not confuse the object he saw with Venus, since he also recalled seeing Venus in the sky on that particular evening, and compared the size of this object as being ten times Venus' diameter. He also stated that he computed the speed at which this object was traveling by using points in his area, such as roof tops and tree tops, together with the distance he walked on the ground in order to keep the object in sight.

- 2 -