## INTERVIEW # 2 --- 2

have been one a few yards south of where he was. He indicated that he was quite "astounded" at what he saw. He indicated that he was slightly scared for fear people would think he and his friend had made up the story just to get some publicity, but felt better when the newspapers had told them that others had reported a strange object in the sky. As a note of interest, the young man confided that since he got home rather late that Saturday evening his parents had confined him to the premises. He wasn't allowed to go out with the boys for awhile. PERSONAL OBSERVATION ---- Mr. Tyler seemed a good deal more conservative than his friend, Mr. Stewart. He is on the LaCrosse Team at Southern Highschool. He seemed (at least over the phone) to be fairly intelligent. He stated that Mr. Stewart was in his opinion a great deal more excited about it than he was.

There were several after-thoughts occuring to him during the conversation. Some of these are as follows: The object when it departed increased in altitude and then sped off with a dazzling speed....faster than anything he had ever seen before. He also said that its highest altitude was still considerably lower than most commercial planes he has seen over his home. As it was increasing in height just prior to leaving he thought he could detect a highly polished surface which resembled a chrome plate. As it sped away it seemed also to have a short yellowish-greenish exhaust. All the time it was hovering, he stated the object was wavering slightly.

He add this toward the end of his story.......I know this doesn't make sense, but I'd swear the engine on that car started up on its own. To him the car seemed to run all right the rest of the way into Baltimore. He admits the car engine starting up has him baffled. But he said definitely that it wasn't started by his friend. He added....it doesn't make sense. In closing the conversation he added again.....I'll stick to my story....we saw something and you can be sure we didn't make this up to get publicity.