PAGE TWO

OF THREE HUNDRED FIFTY TO THREE HUNDRED MILS AT A RANGE OF APPROXIMATELY THIRTY THOUSAND YARDS, APPROXIMATE ALTITUDE THIRTYONE THOUSAND FEET. THE SET TRACK AUTOMATICALLY IS AZIMUTH AND ELEVATION AND WAS AIDED RANGE TRACKING AND CAPABLE OF TRACKING TARGETS UP TO A SPEED OF SEVEN HUNDRED MPH. IN THIS CASE, HOWEVER, BOTH SETS FOUND IT IMPOSSIBLE TO TRACK THE TARGET IN RANGE DUE TO ITS SPEED AND THE OPERATORS HAD TO RESORT TO MANUAL RANGE TRACKING IN ORDER TO HOLD THE TARGET. THE TARGET WAS TRACKED IN THIS MANNER TO THE MAXIMUM TRACKING RANGE OF THIRTYTWO THOUSAND YARDS. THE OPERATOR SAID THE TARGET TO BE MOVING AT A SPEED SEVERAL HUNDRED MPH HIGHER THAN THE MAXIMUM AIDED TRACKING ABILITY OF THE RADAR SETS. THIS TARGET PROVIDED AN EXTREMELY STRONG RETURN ECHO AT TIMES EVEN THOUGH IT WAS THE MAXIMUM RANGE, HOWEVER, ECHO SIGNAL OCCASIONALLY FELL OFF TO A LEVEL BELOW NORMAL RETURN. THESE CHANGES COINCIDED WITH MANEUVERS OF THE TARGET. ON SEPTEMBER ELEVEN, FIFTYONE AT ABOUT ONE THIRTY P.M. THE TARGET WAS PICKED UP ON AN SCR FIVE EIGHT FOUR RADAR SET THAT DISPLAYED UNUSUAL MANEUVERABILITY. TARGET WAS APPROXIMATELY OVER NAVESINK, NJ., AS INDICATED BY HIS TEN THOUSAND RANGE, SIX THOUSAND FEET ALTITUDE AND DUE NORTH AZIMUTH. THE TARGET REMAINED PRACTICALLY STATIONARY ON THE SCHOPE AND APPEARED TO BE HOVERING. THE OPERATOR LOOKED OUT OF THE VAN PAREND THE VEHICLE HOUSING THE RADAR SET PAREND IN AN ATTEMPT TO SEE THE TARGET, SINCE IT WAS AT SUCH A SHORT RANGE, HOWEVER, OVERCAST CONDITIONS PREVENTED SUCH OBSERVATION. RETURNING TO THEIR OPERATING POSITION THE TARGET WAS OBSERVED TO BE CHANGING IN ELEVATION AT AN EXTREMELY RAPID RATE, BUT CHANGE IN RANGE WAS SO SLOW THE OPER

END OF PAGE TWO