## Handwritten Note on Theory of Flying Saucer

*Image: A single sheet of aged, off-white paper with visible creases and a torn right edge. The paper has three hole-punch marks on the left side. The content is primarily handwritten in blue ink, with several stamps and handwritten annotations added later in different inks and styles. A piece of aged tape is visible on the upper right edge.*

---

### Header Information
*   **Date:** Oct 7, 1950
*   **Author:** E. L. Welton
*   **Address:** 413 Irving Ave., Glendale, Calif.
*   **Additional Notation:** *E.L. WELTON* (typed/stamped in red below the address)
*   **Initials (top left):** *[handwritten in blue ink]:* MC

---

### Body of the Note
*My theory of the flying saucer is:*

*It gets its power from electricity generated by a gen generator. The generator is run from a revolving disc, therefore giving the flying saucer a disc like appearance.*

*By the use of gears the revolving disc is able to generate 10 or 20 times more power than is needed.*

*The faster the disc goes, the more power. By use of the new light weight electric motors, there is less weight, and less space taken.*

*The revolving disc is in side of light shell. Forward motion of ship allows disc to revolve, generating elect power.*

*This way, the flying disc could fly almost any length of time. Compressed air could be used to start power disc.*

---

### Margin Notations
*   **Left Margin (vertical text):** *[handwritten in blue ink]:* DISCS OF FLYING

---

### Administrative Stamps and Annotations
*   **Bottom Left:** *[stamp in red ink]:* 25 OCT 25 1950
*   **Bottom Center-Right:**
    *   *[stamped in purple ink]:* RECORDED - 125
    *   *[stamped in purple ink]:* INDEXED - 125
    *   *[stamped in purple ink]:* EX-29
*   **Bottom Right:**
    *   *[handwritten in red ink, circled]:* 62-83894
    *   *[stamped in red ink]:* OCT 13 1950
*   **Handwritten Annotation (bottom right, overlapping text):** *[handwritten in black ink]:* This way, the flying disc could fly almost any length of time. Compressed air could be used to start power disc. *(This appears to be a transcription or restatement of the final lines of the main text.)*